## Who are the Anarchs

<section begin=summary/>

Originally called the Anarch Revolt, this sect is as old as the
revolution against the
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
itself. In recent decades it has seen vast growth as younger kindred
find it increasingly difficult to understand why they must follow the
laws of elders who care nothing for them, but to throw them in harms way
when needed. All vampires who fall outside of the Tower's control are
considered "unbound", and the Anarch movement is a small but visible
subsection of the unbound who, rather than hide, have decided to fight
back. They fight to claim territory from those who oppress them, as the
ancient hands that held onto it are disappearing due to the Beckoning or
other outside forces.

<section end=summary/>

Word on the street is that the Anarchs seek revolution. With more and
more elders disappearing and younger fresher kindred appearing the
Anarch numbers grow. The centuries long lethargy has worn off as they
remember how to fight.[1]

## Culture

Just as with Camarilla domains, each Anarch domain is different. Anarch
values vary from domain to domain, with one unifying trait: Rebellion
against the Tower. Princes are quick to deal out punishments not only
for breach of archaic laws, but for any trace of association to the
Movement. But the footing Camarilla Courts once had are slipping,
especially after members of the sect were suspected for the advent of
the <a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a>.

Most Camarilla vampires influence humankind from deep within the
shadows, manipulating them from the outside. Many Anarchs, however,
integrate themselves into mortal lives to a much larger degree. This
guise makes them simultaneously safe and vulnerable. Their connection to
mortals leaves room for mistakes, but they are also members of mortal
society rather than a mansion-bound recluse.[2]

Some Kindred have nickname to distinguish their "traitorous" political
leanings from their Camarilla counterparts.

- Unchained
  <a href="Malkavian" class="wikilink" title="Malkavians">Malkavians</a> -
  called so from the belief they are disconnected to the Blood and
  Network.[3]
- Red
  <a href="Nosferatu" class="wikilink" title="Nosferatu">Nosferatu</a> -
  Mockingly called so by the Camarilla but adopted by Anarch Nosferatu
  for having a "mini revolution."[4]
- Abstract
  <a href="Toreador" class="wikilink" title="Toreador">Toreador</a> -
  Mockingly called so by Camarilla Toreadors, and adopted by Anarch
  Toreadors.[5]
- Ipsissimus
  <a href="Tremere" class="wikilink" title="Tremere">Tremere</a> -
  Sometimes considered the fourth house, these Anarchs are called so
  because many pursue an arcane sense of self, hence the name.[6]
- Free <a href="Ventrue" class="wikilink" title="Ventrue">Ventrue</a> -
  Many considers themselves free from the traditions, taboos, and
  hierarchy of the clan.[7]

## Structure

Some Anarch domains possess a Prince or, as the Anarchs call them,
Baron. Other domains are instead controlled by gangs who each have their
own turf. Below are some roles or groups that an Anarch domain may or
may not have. It is also possible for Anarchs to have a combination of
these roles and groups in one singular domain.[8]

Baron is an informal title for the Anarch leader of a domain. How they
have or wield the power varies by domain and groups. They may
be charismatic gang leaders, brutal warlords, an elected public
representative, or any other form of leadership. A particular distrusted
type of Baron is the one who claim the sole seat of a whole city, like a
Prince. They may keep the power to dole out hunting ground[9] and make
major decisions, depending on the domain and their base of power.[10]   

An Anarch Revolutionary Council may also be the governing body that
wields the power in a domain, or they may do it alongside a Baron.
Councils are groups of Kindred that may ostensibly be "appointed" or
"elected" depending on the domain, though any formal process is likely
just sham. The councilors may claim the right to set hunting grounds and
set up the policies of the domain. [11] [12] [13] [14]

Emissaries are diplomats who may work between gangs, cells, councils,
Barons, or from Anarch domains to Camarilla domains. As a domain can
have any number of factions within and outside; some domain necessitate
a large amount of emissaries to push a groups agenda or deliver
messages.

Sweeper is a controversial role that some domains may have that may not
even be official. This role is for powerful Anarchs who have the power
and gumption to remove problem Kindred from the domain. Traitorous
gangs, Kindred on an Embracing spree, a Camarilla spy, etc. They deal
with it one way or another. They work like the fixer of the domain who
other Anarchs can appeal to for such problems. Those that take the role
may find it socially isolating.

Gangs are similar to a coterie, a group of Anarchs who carve out
territory or turf and they overlook it. Oftentimes may get into
conflicts with others when they claim too much or clash with other
gangs.

Cells are underground coteries of Anarchs who work similar to a
political cabal or criminal syndicate. Cells do not usually get into as
much open conflict as gangs, as they prefer working with clandestine
tactics and emphasize security. They may operate in Camarilla territory
making their secrecy even more important.[15]  

## History

### The Age of Carthage

<a href="Carthage" class="wikilink" title="Carthage">Carthage</a> is
sometimes called the "Third City" in Anarch circles, said to be a major
hub for vampires and mortals coexisting like in the First and Second
city of Kindred lore. While much debate over the city’s nature still
rages, especially with the Camarilla and Anarch account, it still stands
as an inspiration to many. The North African city is said to have lacked
any need for vampires to hide. Kindred were in leadership roles, but the
degree is uncertain. Troile, the supposed
<a href="Brujah" class="wikilink" title="Brujah">Brujah</a>
Antediluvian, is claimed to have led the city with Brujah and
<a href="Banu_Haqim" class="wikilink" title="Banu Haqim">Banu Haqim</a>
vampires as the undead majority. The city was eventually destroyed by a
<a href="Ventrue" class="wikilink" title="Ventrue">Ventrue</a> and
<a href="Malkavian" class="wikilink" title="Malkavian">Malkavian</a>
backed Rome and Troile buried under the earth. Though the city fell, it
remained in many Kindred’s mind as a symbol of defiance to the old ways,
for better or worse. [16] [17]

### First Inquisition

With the First Inquisition in full swing the flames of the Inquisition
hit Kindred hard. [18] During the 15th Century elders used their childer
as pawns to sacrifice to save themselves from the Inquisition, but not
all of the young Kindred died. [19] Some modern
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
vampires blame Kindred arrogance and their mingling with mortal for the
hunting and destruction of Kindred.[20]  Whatever the case, Europe found
itself in the First Anarch Revolt.[21]

### The First Anarch Revolt

Young Kindred were tired of being seen as toys and properties of their
sires, who often employed a more draconian system where loyalty was
ensured with Blood Bonds and enforced expectations of servility to older
monsters. The Anarch ideas challenged the status quo. A Brujah vampire,
Tyler, rose to prominence as “the First Anarch”. A rebel English peasant
in life, she spread the ideals and revolutionary violence that would
later become the movement.[22] [23] To fight the Blood Bond it is said
warbands of kindred discovered Blood Sorcery that broke their Bonds and
instead tied them to their comrades. This allowed Anarchs to strike out
against their old masters.

Major events that highlighted the movement was the apparent destruction
of the <a href="Tzimisce" class="wikilink" title="Tzimisce">Tzimisce</a>
and Lasombra clans' progenitors. These rumors gave the Anarchs a sense
of legitimacy and galvanized younger Kindred. Many leaders of the
movement were of the Brujah, Banu Haqim, and Lasombra clans, though most
clans experienced their fledglings and neonates revolting against the
old ways to some extent. [24] [25]

### Convention of Thorns

Even with the Revolt in full swing Kindred society was still plagued by
the Inquisition. It is rumored that the elders began luring the
Inquisition towards the Anarchs, though elders claim that it was the
audacious attacks of the Anarchs that attracted the inquisitors. Either
way, all Kindred were being worn down by the onslaught. A peace summit
was proposed --- the Convention of Thorns --- and the formation of a
Kindred alliance by Hardestadt the Elder and his associates. In 1493,
the deal was offered with mixed reactions. The Lasombra and Minister
representatives refused[26], more extremists like Tyler led a walk out,
but the majority of Anarch leaders signed the alliance and acknowledged
the Camarilla and its traditions as law for all Kindred. [27] [28]

The immediate consequence of the Camarilla formation was a vicious
attack by Anarch extremists, who loathed the deal their leaders struck.
Silchester was at the center of a mass Masquerade violation and the
supposed destruction of Hardestadt the Elder by Tyler. To her regret,
this faction of Anarchs soon turned into kindred supremacists,
eventually becoming the
<a href="Sabbat" class="wikilink" title="Sabbat">Sabbat</a>. [29] [30]
[31][32]

For the years after, the Anarchs worked more so as a political ideology
or wing under the Camarilla umbrella,[33]  even fighting in the Sect
Wars in the 90s against Sabbat incursion on New World cities.[34] That
said, there were locations where more hardliners pushed to differentiate
themselves, such as the Anarch Free States.

### Various Revolts over the Years

With the Anarchs not having one solid doctrine, domains have risen and
fallen over the years. Some enduring, others fleeting.

#### Paris

<a href="Paris,_France" class="wikilink" title="Paris">Paris</a> is
considered along with
<a href="London,_UK" class="wikilink" title="London">London</a> and
Berlin to be the three Camarilla jewels of the Old World, strongholds
since its founding.[35]  This stronghold was lost twice to Anarchs,
during the French Revolution and May 68. The Revolution was bloody and
led to many elders destroyed by both mortal mobs and Anarch groups.
Prince Francois Villon was forced to flee the city. In the end kine got
new ideals to spread in Europe, but Kindred saw Francois return and
return to the status quo. May 68 had a seemingly similar start for
Kindred, but was prevented from becoming a full uprising. [36]

#### The Soviet Union

Young Kindred used the October Revolution as a means to rage war against
the elders. They succeeded in the uprising and now they wanted a new
country, ruled by the Congress of the Revolutionary Council, or the
Brujah Council. Their aim was to make an egalitarian society from the
Blood of Princes and elders.  like Carthage, though for Kindred but not
necessarily mortals. That proved to be a major issue for Kindred in the
USSR: whether mortals deserve to be treated equal to Kindred. This
motion was eventually brought to a vote and lost, with the Council
officially seeing mortals as just tools and food, forever changing the
course of the Soviet Anarchs. Kindred with mortal sympathies were
purged, Masquerade breaches harshly punished, and mortals manipulated to
easily give blood. It all fell apart as the mortal nation dissolved and
Princes started to stake out individual domains. Some Anarchs still hold
enmity to those of the old Brujah Council. [37] [38]

### Second Anarch Revolt

Los Angeles, California in the United States was host to a revolution in
1943. Camarilla Prince Don Sebastian’s rule was challenged, and
revolution was underway. Jeremy MacNeil rallied the Kindred of the
domain to stand up to the cruelty of the Prince. In 1944, Don Sebastian
supposedly met
<a href="final_death" class="wikilink" title="final death">final
death</a> at the hands of <a href="Salvador_Garcia" class="wikilink"
title="Salvador Garcia">Salvador Garcia</a>. Making MacNeil and Garcia
Anarch icons, and the Camarilla considered the area a lost cause for
years to come. The Anarch States survived Sabbat invasions, Camarilla
incursions, and others trying to impose their rule. The area is largely
many smaller domains in the San Fernando Valley; ruled by gangs, cells,
Barons, etc. who only come together during times of crisis. [39] [40]
[41] [42]

### Third Anarch Revolt

As the turn of the millennium came to pass, so began the War on Terror
and the so-called Second Inquisition. By unearthing old bank accounts
and vampire communications thought encrypted, agents in different levels
of the government began noticing Kindred activity. [43] Camarilla
vampires began to leak information on Anarchs to the FBI and NSA to
divert attention. The Red Question, a divisive Anarch hacktivist group,
disappeared around this time just a few years after causing a major
financial loss to many Camarilla vampires through the crash of 2008.[44]
Other problem Anarch groups saw more attention from mortal governments.
Such disruptions to Courts and factions soon lead to a call for a
Conclave to discuss the future of Camarilla domains.

While it is technically the Conclave of Prague, the Anarchs have taken
to calling it the Convention of Prague, paralleling it to the importance
of the Convention of Thorns. There, Camarilla Courts' new secret policy
of directing Second Inquisition operations to not just Sabbat, but also
Anarch domains, came to light. This alienated many Brujah and Anarchs.
Theo Bell decapitated Hardestadt and galvanized other malcontents to
attack Camarilla officials and defected. A ripple effect from this
spread quickly, cities flipped, Anarch domains swelled, and political
lines were drawn. The Anarchs had officially broken off from the
Camarilla for their betrayal. [45][46]

Anarch activity received aid in secret from Gangrel sympathizers.[47]
Now with aid, numbers, and motivation, the Anarch could capitalize on
Camarilla domains bereft of elders from the Beckoning. Anarchs advanced
on weak Camarilla domains, and even abandoned Sabbat domains, spreading
the revolution and inspiring others to rise up. [48] [49] This was most
famously seen with the fall of the Camarilla stronghold Berlin where an
infamously cruel Camarilla Prince was overthrown by a mob of Kindred
slaying him in the open. [50]

The turn of events has led to a number of things. The first is the
Camarilla shutting its doors to anyone not pledging their allegiance, as
well as no longer welcoming anyone of 14th generation or weaker. They
also instituted limits on technology, banning the use of networked
computers and phones in fear of the now rampant Second Inquisition.
Anarchs, typically more adept at using tech, plan to leverage this to
their advantage. [51] The Anarchs were soon joined by the Ministry. A
clan that was recently spurned by the Camarilla, as they tested the
waters joining the Tower and investing, their meeting was blown up and
their enemies, the Banu Haqim, invited instead. The Ministers aided the
Anarchs in spreading the Movement in places not once thought accessible.
[52]  Many young Tzimisce have gone Anarch as well, finding their
elders’ and sires’ greed hampers their own growth. [53]

## Prominent Kindred

<a href="Agata_Starek" class="wikilink" title="Agata Starek">Agata
Starek</a>

<a href="Brujah#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Theo Bell">Theo Bell</a>

<a href="Salvador_Garcia" class="wikilink"
title="Salvador Garcia">Salvador Garcia</a>

<a href="Gangrel#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Rudi">Rudi</a>

<a href="Brujah#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Jeremy MacNeil">Jeremy MacNeil</a>

<a href="Caitiff#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Maldavis">Maldavis</a>

<a href="Brujah#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Anita Wainwright">Anita Wainwright</a>

<a href="Dalia_Nakache" class="wikilink" title="Dalia Nakache">Dalia
Nakache</a>

## References

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Factions" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Factions">Category:Factions</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 54-55

[2]

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 132 - 133

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 164 - 165

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 166 - 169

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 170 - 172

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 173 - 175

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 55

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 319

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 39 - 40

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 307

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 317

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 321

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 39 - 40

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 39 - 40

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 196

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 15-16

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 68

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 92

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 168-169

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 19-20

[22] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 16-18

[23] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 195

[24] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 198

[25] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Pages 91-93

[26] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 287

[27] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 68

[28] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 19 - 20

[29] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 198

[30] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 48-49

[31] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 16

[32] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Pages 91-93

[33] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 32

[34] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 392

[35] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 119

[36] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 22-24

[37] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 25-27

[38] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 117 - 119

[39] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 29 - 31

[40] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 73

[41] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 190

[42] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 190

[43] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 56

[44] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 193

[45] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 34

[46] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 174 - 176

[47] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 174-175

[48] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 37-39

[49] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 54 - 55

[50] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 111 - 112

[51] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 57

[52] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 175-183

[53] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion Guide</a>, page 18
