## Overview

<section begin=summary/>

There are many different stories about who
<a href="Lilith" class="wikilink" title="Lilith">Lilith</a> was, what
happened to her and why but to the Bahari, also known as the Children of
Lilith, they see her as freedom and unimaginable power. Through pain,
both mental and physical, the Bahari cultivate their Gardens (their term
for each coven), to grasp factions of the Dark Mother's power.

<section end=summary/>

The Bahari are followers of Lilith, a mysterious legendary figure. They
believed her hands would have made Eden the best garden if not for Adam
and God. They believed she had three subsequent gardens representing
hope, renewal, and suffering. These are held in high regard to the
Bahari faith.[1]

Each Lilin has a different take on the many accounts, satires, and
stories of Lilith, the Dark Mother. Which descriptions and histories are
most important differ from cell to cell. Some Bahari try to make new
Gardens by gaining a large enough fertile domain and usually declaring
it a theme of one legendary three Gardens. One major one is a Garden of
Hope, in Budapest, which stands as a place of pilgrimage. Not all
Gardens need to follow the original three themes, but many do.

Worshiping Lilith over Caine is an integral part of their belief. Such
assertions can even get violent or dangerous for a Bahari member. Their
mission is to try to bring others to their truth of the Dark Mother. In
Modern Nights the Lilins see the chaos and suffering of the world as a
chance for the individual to open themselves to the Dark Mother and be
unafraid of death or Final Death. Be willing to spread fear and
suffering for the justice they never received. [2]

Their end goal is to spread the truth of Lilith over Caine and bring her
pain to both the Living and the Dead. How this looks differs, some take
to mass violence in their clandestine cells to spread suffering, as they
focus on destroying Caine’s world. Some target billionaires who seek to
escape death in a bunker. The others go for abusers or whoever is deemed
worthy of their wrath. [3]

The Bahari cult don't accept
<a href="Thin-blood" class="wikilink" title="Duskborn">Duskborn</a>
easily, at least not until they find something useful they want and then
they can come to an arrangement that would benefit the thin-bloods. [4]

## Hierarchy

Bahari cells and the cells’s area of worship are called Gardens; they
are usually ready by one or two. The individual worshipers are Ba’ham,
Lilins or Lhakas. The group usually targets those traumatized with pain
or fear. Survivors of abuse, crime, and tragedy, people in the pits of
despair, and victims of severe injustice are all viable targets for the
cult. The other group of recruitment are those with a keen interest in
*The Revelations of the Dark Mother*; the text is important to the cult.
[5]

Those learning the ways of the Dark Mother start on the outskirts of
someone else’s Garden. If a human, their focus is less on supernatural
gifts and more on pain, getting rid of personal fear, and the need for
blood sacrifices. Mages and those of physical gifts are given more
information on the supernatural  in their early studies. Cainites
receive painful deprogramming on Caine myths and indoctrination into the
ways of Lilith. [6]

The Bahari lack an inner circle or higher echelon of command. They work
with the Cell system and manipulate their new recruits for violence
against Cainites. Though they have no central command they are a global
cult with Gardens all over. They can be in any domain, big or small. [7]

## Convictions

• Always correct the false myths of Caine when you hear them

• Never feel remorse for serving Lilith

• Always participate in Bahari rituals

• Never allow the destruction of your creations to go unavenged

• Never show fear in the face of death

• Only kill in sacrifice to Lilith

• Never fail to dispense pain and anguish to Lilith’s enemies[8]

## Exclusive Character Options

<a href="Blood_Sorcery_Rituals#Coax_the_Garden" class="wikilink"
title="Coax the Garden">Coax the Garden</a> - Level 1 Blood Sorcery
Ritual

<a href="Blood_Sorcery_Rituals#Eden’s_Bounty" class="wikilink"
title="Eden’s Bounty">Eden’s Bounty</a> - Level 5 Blood Sorcery
Ritual[9]

## Exclusive Loresheets

•
<a href="Loresheets#The_Bahari" class="wikilink" title="The Bahari">The
Bahari</a>[10]

## Notable Members

## References

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Cults" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Cults">Category:Cults</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 46-49

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 46-50

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 53

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 134

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 50-51

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 49

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 51

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 50

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, Page 382

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, Page 382
