\_\_TOC\_\_ **Banu Haqim** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of
Vampire: The Masquerade. The Judges of the Banu Haqim are torn between
their hereditary thirst for vampiric Blood and their passion for
justice. Stern adjudicators, they are fiercely devoted to upholding a
moral code, and
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a> mortals
capable of assessing and handling threats, enforcing laws and
traditions, and punishing transgressors.[1]

Regardless of the individual Banu Haqim's stance, they all adhere to
some type of strict code, be it blood laws, personal ethics,
governmental or religious rules. Nevertheless, that doesn't mean they
are free of self-interest, and often such codes of conduct are a
self-regulation method to keep in check their desire for Kindred blood.
The Banu Haqim's instinct to find the guilty is intrinsic to the Blood
and not bound by religion; those guilty of whatever transgression a
Child of Haqim deems unforgivable must be punished, and punishment might
even include taking their unlife from their veins through diablerie.
They are also not tied to a specific cultural or geographical
background, and modern Banu Haqim hail from all over the world,
representing various beliefs. Their individual code is also not
necessarily tied to a faith, and may come from personal convictions
rather than religion.[2]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Banu Haqim and their uses. [3]

- **Blood Sorcery** is used to poison their blades and use their blood
  as a weapon against others, as well as sift out the truth in blood.
  They keep their secrets of Blood Sorcery close.
- **Celerity** gives them to ability to move and react more quickly than
  humanly possible, allowing them to make judgement calls without the
  hesitation of thought.
- **Obfuscate** is how they melt into shadows and disappear when needed.
  An useful Discipline for those times when they wish to witness a crime
  without being spotted before casting their judgement.

## Bane

<section begin="bane" />

**Blood Addiction** - When the Banu Haqim slakes at least one Hunger
level from another vampire, they must make a Hunger
[Frenzy](./frenzy.md) test at
difficulty 2 plus Bane Severity. If they fail, they must gorge
themselves on vitae, in turn opening the door to possible
[Diablerie](./diablerie.md).

<section end="bane" />

[4]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Noxious Blood** - The Blood of the Banu Haqim is toxic to mortals, but
not to other vampires. Due to this mortals receive Aggravated Damage
equal to the Bane Severity of the vampire for each Rouse Check’s worth
of Blood consumed. Their Blood cannot be used to heal mortal injuries.
In amounts below the amount needed to
[Blood Bond](./blood_bond.md),
it does not harm them, even if directly injected into them.

<section end="altbane" />

[5]

## Compulsion

<section begin="compulsion" />

**Judgement** - Urged to punish a wrongdoer, the vampire must slake one
Hunger from anyone that acts against their own Convictions. Failing to
do so results in a three-dice penalty to all rolls until the Compulsion
is satisfied or the scene ends. Should the victim be a vampire, the Bane
applies.

<section end="compulsion" />

[6]

## Example archetypes

- **Advocate** - A lawyer with a strong sense of justice, willing to
  bring it to those in need, who often used to work on unwinnable cases
  and represented the most downtrodden clients.
- **Local Sheriff** - A guardian for a limited environment, like a small
  town or a district, with the need to protect it from any potential
  harm.
- **Hitman** - Unrelenting in their task, the hitman is able to meet
  their goals and beyond. Their creed sometimes pushes them to take
  additional contracts for personal reasons.
- **Rehab Leader** - Their personal life has shaped their ethos, urging
  them to aid those who seek it and strike out against those who will
  not seek rehabilitation.

## Notable characters

**Fatima al-Faqadi** - Known within the clan as the Hand of Vengeance,
she was embraced in the 12th Century C.E. and is one of the most
dangerous and skilled assassins to ever have become a Kindred. She is
faithful to Islam and an enemy to the cultists of Ur-Shulgi. Before
Alamut fell under cultist control, she worked for vitae and undertook
contracts to benefit the stronghold. Now, she is reported to have become
a leader of a Banu Haqim group fighting side by side with the Camarilla
in the Gehenna war. Rumor has it she only takes part in these fights to
determine the fate of her lover Lucita, though she silences these rumors
with a cold deadly stare. [7]

**Tegyrius** - High ranking Vizier of the Ashirra, the groom in the
Vermillion Wedding. He is to married and
[Blood Bound](./blood_bond.md) to
<a href="Victoria_Ash" class="wikilink" title="Victoria Ash">Victoria
Ash</a> in a Blood Wedding to bring both clans together and aid in the
Banu Haqim's entry into the Camarilla.[8][9]

**Ur-Shulgi** - A methuselah of the clan, potentially direct a childe of
Haqim, and perhaps one of the greatest sorcerers in the clan. Having
awaken from Torpor after thousands of years, broke the clan blood curse,
but was horrified to find his clan follow a human religion. He now leads
a schism in his clan with his cult claiming to be the true followers of
Haqim at odds with those who follow human religions or challenge his
claims.[10]

**Al-Ashrad** - The *Amr,* the most learned and respected of the clan's
sorcerers*,* of the Banu Haqim. Al-Ashrad helped lead many of his clan
into the Camarilla after the awakening of Ur-Shulgi as part of the
schism in the clan.

**Samira** - Featured in
<a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Shadows_of_New_York" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Shadows of New York">Vampire: The
Masquerade Shadows of New York</a>, she is the Banu Haqim Primogen of
New York.

**Justice** - Featured in
<a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Justice" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Justice">Vampire: The Masquerade
Justice</a>, he is the main character that investigates the
assassination of his sire in a city controlled by the
[Hecata.](./hecata.md)

**Julian Sim** - Featured in
<a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Night_Road" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Night Road">Vampire: The Masquerade Night
Road</a>, he is an
[Anarch](./anarch.md) Banu Haqim.

## Culture

### Embrace

The clan itself is diverse, consisting of many different types of
lawmen, scholars, judges, and vigilantes. Sires generally seek to
embrace those that excel in strategy and thought as well as honed
swords. In more recent nights, they target mortals capable of handling
threats, enforcing laws or other traditions through force of personality
or skill. It is not uncommon for them to seek out war veterans for their
abilities and for a chance at redemption. The Banu Haqim are still more
than a clan of murderers. The Viziers and Warriors of the clan have
descended from different broods, each compelled to embrace a mortal
matching their different inclinations. The Warriors tend towards those
skilled in combat and the Viziers seek those knowledgeable in political
or legal power. [11]

### Mortal society

Many rumors float around the Banu Haqim, a popular one around Kindred is
the notion of the Banu Haqim being only mercenaries with a taste for
vitae and never meddle in human affairs. Lawmakers and criminals are a
prime sector the clan holds their influence. With the wealthy families
of Arabia the clan has infiltrated and manipulated have yielded them
many connections: petrochemicals for money making, banks for financial
espionage, telecommunications to better encrypt messages, and luxury
hotels for exclusivity and more money making.

Many Banu Haqim look upon their founder as the judge of all vampires.
They tend to follow this ideal in how they select their tools and
thralls. Their retainers and herd members are often chosen from police
departments, private security, and other law enforcement areas and
enterprises. Many also select mortals from organized crime for their
entourage. They reach into these sectors pragmatically, some of these
criminals and officers will get the Embrace, but mostly as valuable
assets to hold on to. When there is need for discretion and a mortal to
be silenced, the Banu Haqim exert their influence over their mortals to
do so.[12]

### Kindred society

The clan is currently recovering from a large schism in their ranks.
This crisis has put the [Ashirra](./camarilla.md#the-ashirra) and the clan in a rough spot politically,
making the
[Camarilla](./camarilla.md)
look more appealing. A union with the Camarilla was more desirable than
ever. The [Gangrel](./gangrel.md)
and [Brujah](./brujah.md)
departure made a niche for protectors and hunters the clan was fit for.
Though there was always the mutual enmity with the Tremere, two other
events helped secure their place: Vienna’s attack and Sabbat Gehenna
War. The [Ventrue](./ventrue.md)
and [Tremere](./tremere.md) may
still eye them warily. However, many Kindred of
[Clan Toreador](./toreador.md) welcome the newcomers as they are now linked via the
Vermillion Wedding, the diplomatic Blood Wedding of Victoria Ash and
Tegyrius.[13]

In the past the clan had many mercenaries, hired killers, and bounty
hunters. For a fee of vitae, an enemy Kindred would meet
[final death](./final_death.md). Now their role has changed, with the Followers of Ur-Shulgi
inspiring many to break the ways of old. Their dominance of the law and
law breakers has made them ideal members as a pillar of the Camarilla.

The Banu Haqim are known as the Judges, their blood calls forth passion
for some form of justice. Many believe in a strict code: the tenants of
a cult, personal code of honor, rules of a nation, rules of a religion,
or any sort of rules the Haqimite lives by.  Of course cynical Kindred
points out this is just the clan hiding their thirst for diablerie
behind determining what’s right and wrong. For if someone is guilty,
then they deserve to be drained.

Clan culture usually emphasizes childe-sire relationships for mentorship
in their blood sorcery ways, though the diaspora of the clan in recent
nights has made this challenging.[14] This type of clan culture rewards
achievement and rewards the goal-oriented Haqimites. Stark contrast to
some clans that exalt lineage or tradition, the Banu Haqim focus more on
deed. This pushes many Banu Haqim to be pragmatic and know when to make
allies to fit their personal agenda. Coteries with all Banu Haqim
usually have a clear focus and purpose, with the Judge keeping the goal
in mind.[15]

In mixed coteries, Banu Haqim may find themselves drawn to setting the
plan and focus of the coterie and pushing their coterie mates forward.
They usually gravitate toward roles where they can determine group
direction or interpret collective goals. They attempt to be leaders
though other clans may chafe under such directions. The latter point is
true of younger Kindred who are not looking for such a task-oriented
coterie.

At times the Haqimite may only be in the coterie until the task is
complete. Their pursuit of their agenda’s goals may lead some Banu Haqim
to join a different coterie when their old objective is complete. Though
they keep former coterie mates as valuable allies and associates. Many
Haqimites are always on the move from one coterie to another chasing
their goals.[16]

Some on the [redwork scene](./blood_craft_scene.md) see the Banu Haqim in three
archetypes: judge, scholar, or bouncer. Judges are Banu with strict
personal codes or pretend to have them, scholars are looking to learn
history or craft, and the bouncer enjoys applied physical arts of Blood
Sorcery.[17]

## History

For a long time, the Banu Haqim have kept themselves removed from
Kindred society, but this era of isolation is coming to an end.
Somewhere in Afghanistan, the Children of Haqim hide within a base
called Alamut. However, this base of operation has fallen to blood
cultists, the followers of the now awakened methuselah Ur-Shulgi who
prepare to deliver judgement upon their kin known as the
<a href="Shepherds_of_Ur-Shulgi" class="wikilink"
title="Shepherds of Ur-Shulgi">Shepherds of Ur-Shulgi</a>. These
cultists are separate from the Islamic Warriors and Viziers embraced
long after the clan abandoned their blood worship. Sensible Haqimites
are thus pushed to flee their old home. The majority of them have joined
the [Ashirra](./camarilla.md#the-ashirra), a local Kindred sect, while the rest seek
asylum in the western counterpart - the
[Camarilla](./camarilla.md).[18][19]

The changes of their clan have brought the Banu Haqim closer to Kindred
society. With old strongholds gone and mingling more, the many Haqimites
are on the [blood craft scene](./blood_craft_scene.md) dealing blood magic,
services, and secrets out of necessity. Though when it comes to
teaching, some their individual moral codes somewhat influence how they
do business and whom they deal with. Many young scholarly Banu Haqim
have taken to the role of chroniclers, researchers, and revivalists on
the blood craft scene. Some even use this knowledge for power as
ambassadors, leaders, or even regulators.[20]

### Factional differences

The Odense Pact was signed in the Danish city of the same name and led
to the Banu Haqim being admitted into the Camarilla. Now the Clan is
mostly in the Camarilla and the allied Ashirra. While there are no
naming differences most of the clan resides in either of the two
aforementioned sects. Anarchs and Autarkis of the clan would have
usually have to forgo the closeness the clan usually has. Of course, the
Shepherds of Ur-Shulgi could be considered Autarkis.[21]

## Exclusive Loresheets

Banu Haqim characters have special access to the following loresheets:

• [High Clan](./loresheets.md#high-clan)

• [Occult Artifacts](./loresheets.md#occult-artifacts)

• [Descendant of Al-Ashrad](./loresheets.md#descendant-of-al-ashrad)

## Gallery

<File:Fatima> al-Faqadi character.png|Fatima al-Faqadi
<File:Ur-Shulgi.PNG%7CUr-Shulgi> <File:Tegyrius> the Vizier.PNG|Tegyrius
<File:Al> Ashrad.PNG|Al-Ashrad <File:Arjun> Shah.PNG|Arjun Shah

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 161

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 167

[4]

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 56

[6]

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 185

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 92-93

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 123

[10]

[11]

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 161-162

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 92

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 272

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 158-163

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 21

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Sigils" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Blood Sigils">Vampire: the Masquerade
Blood Sigils</a>, page 16

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 160-161

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Forbidden_Religions" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Forbidden Religions">Vampire: The
Masquerade Forbidden Religions</a>, pages 19-23

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Sigils" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Blood Sigils">Vampire: the Masquerade
Blood Sigils</a>, page 104-105

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 158
