{{#ev:youtube | id= p1VbpVTArzI | description= ***Intro to Vampire: The
Masquerade***. *Josephine McAdam* (from L.A. by Night) welcomes you to
the 5th edition of *World of Darkness*, and shares the basic concepts of
Vampire, the roleplaying game of personal horror and political intrigue.
| alignment= right | container=frame }}

*Vampire: The Masquerade* is a tabletop role-playing game (TTRPG), set
in a dark reflection of the modern world where players assume the roles
of Vampires, often referred to as "Kindred", and deal with their
night-to-night struggles against their own bestial natures, vampire
hunters and each other.

## Concept

The game uses the vampiric condition as a backdrop to explore themes
such as retaining the character's sense of self, humanity, and sanity,
as well as simply keeping from being crushed by the grim opposition of
mortal and supernatural antagonists and, more poignantly, surviving the
politics, treachery, and often violent ambitions of their own kind.

## Game system

Vampire: The Masquerade is based on the Storyteller System and uses a
number of specific mechanics and tools aimed towards simulating the
vampiric existence:

- The
  **<a href="Hunger_system" class="wikilink" title="Hunger">Hunger</a>**
  mechanic, introduced in the 5th edition, is used to play out the drama
  of the vampire's struggle against their Beast by adding extra risk and
  difficulty to their actions, sometimes causing the Beast to intercede
  in a vampire's actions through Bestial Failures or Messy Criticals.
  - [Disciplines](./disciplines.md), also known as a vampire's
    supernatural powers, are often subject to Rouse Checks, a dice roll
    that checks if an increase in Hunger has occurred
  - Hunger ranges from 0 to 5. A vampire can only be free of Hunger and
    the Beast if they take a life, and even then, it's only temporary.
    If a vampire reaches Hunger 4+, they need to make a Hunger Frenzy
    check in response to certain triggers in an attempt to resist the
    Beast temporarily taking over the vampire's thoughts and actions.

<!-- -->

- **[Frenzy](./frenzy.md)** is a
  term describing a supernatural fight-or-flight reaction experienced by
  vampires:
  - *Fury Frenzy* usually triggers when a vampire is provoked, insulted,
    or humiliated into bestial violence
  - *Hunger Frenzy* usually triggers when a vampire is tempted by, or
    tastes, blood while hungry, or when their hunger would try to be
    raised above 5.
  - *Terror Frenzy*, also called Rötschreck, usually triggers when a
    vampire is confronted with a threat like sunlight or fire

<!-- -->

- The **<a href="Beast" class="wikilink" title="Beast">Beast</a>** is
  the innate predator inside of every vampire that drives and urges them
  to become entirely a monster. Every night, sometimes multiple times a
  night, a vampire has to resist The Beast, lest they forsake all
  humanity left within them.

<!-- -->

- **[Humanity](./humanity.md)**
  is a measure of how closely a vampire clings to the morality and
  values of mortal life, and consequently how well they are able to
  resist the urges of the Beast:
  - Players choose between one to three personal human **Convictions**
    and create **Touchstones** to represent their connection to each, to
    help mitigate Humanity-compromising Stains. By default, they must be
    living mortals or
    [ghouls](./mortals_ghouls.md)
  - The player coterie determines **Chronicle Tenets** to self-define
    its moral and ethical values. If the Tenets are broken, each
    offending character incurs Stains.
  - [<strong>Stains</strong>](./humanity.md#stains) represent the corruptions
    and deformations of a vampire's Humanity. If too many Stains build
    up without repentance or redress via a Remorse test, a vampire's
    Humanity will drop.

<!-- -->

- The
  **<a href="Masquerade" class="wikilink" title="Masquerade">Masquerade</a>**
  is the elaborate veil of deception pulled over the eyes of the living
  to hide the existence of Vampires. The Masquerade is the cornerstone
  survival strategy for Vampires because without it, the humans would
  rise up and exterminate all Kindred.

## Vampires of the World of Darkness

Vampires are the fundamental and player characters of Vampire: The
Masquerade. They are undead creatures with hearts that do not beat, they
do not age, their skin is cold, and the only sustenance they require is
blood. Despite their undead status, Vampires are thinking, feeling
beings capable of very human emotions and empathy.

- The **Embrace** is the act of transforming a mortal into a vampire. A
  vampire drains and replaces a victim's blood with a bit of their own
  to pass on their
  <a href="Clans" class="wikilink" title="Clan">Clan</a> and curse.
  - A newly Embraced vampire is always one
    **[Generation](./generation.md)**
    higher than their sire, the number indicating how many generations
    they are removed from the original
    <a href="Caine" class="wikilink" title="progenitor">progenitor</a>.

<!-- -->

- Vampires of every Clan have unique
  **[Banes](./banes.md)** and
  **[Compulsions](./compulsion.md)**, save a few exceptions
  - A *Bane* is curse, a supernatural limitation experienced by vampires
    based on their Clan, and are one of the features that set one Clan
    of vampires apart from other Clans.
  - *Compulsions* occur when a vampire experiences a bestial failure,
    the Hunger subtly urging a vampire into actions dictated by their
    Blood and Clan

<!-- -->

- Aside from the particular Curses of each Clan, vampires share a few
  weaknesses:
  - Vampires are dependent on blood to sustain their existence
  - Vampires universally fear fire and sunlight
  - A wooden stake through the heart will immobilize a vampire
  - Every vampire is subject to the Beast

## Vampire society

In the World of Darkness, most Vampires belong to a
[Faction](./factions.md) or
sect—a social organization of Kindred composed of multiple Clans with
its own dogma that its members attempt to uphold:

- The
  **[Camarilla](./camarilla.md)**
  is the most widely influential organization Kindred history has ever
  known. Its stated purpose is to preserve the Masquerade, but just as
  importantly, to preserve the power of the elders who control vast
  amounts of wealth, resources, and influence.

<!-- -->

- The **[Anarch Movement](./anarch.md)** is the revolution against the Camarilla. The Anarchs
  especially resent the privileged status held by elders within the
  Camarilla, and actively fight back against their control.

<a href="Category:Beginner&#39;s_guide" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Beginner&#39;s guide">Category:Beginner's guide</a>
