## Overview

The Blood Bond is a system of control, making the victim (thrall)
infatuated or obsessed with their master (regnant) against their will.
This practice is feared by most, though the
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
utilizes it against both Kindred and mortal servants. Most
<a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarch">Anarch</a> will refuse
to use such methods, though there is the rare occasion where they view
its practice as crucial for the cause's safety.

The bond is created when another drinks the vitae straight from another
kindred, much like the
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a>. If the
Blood of a vampire is allowed to stagnate, even just a few minutes, this
effect will not take place, and it requires three separate drinks on
three separate nights to take hold. However, once it has, the thrall
experiences a sense of loyalty and sometimes even a degree of
infatuation towards their regnant. As the bond removes the thrall's
general sense of free will, they will do whatever it takes to make their
regnant happy and fear angering them. Many Kindred that have fallen to a
Blood Bond will not recognize it as anything but a mutual desire. In
some cases, a Blood Wedding might be formed which is where both Kindred
are bonded to each other. Make no mistake in thinking of this as love,
instead, it is an obsession and addiction between the two Kindred. One
that turns into an abusive and dysfunctional relationship as the years
go one which makes them strongly disliked by the Camarilla.

Unlike <a href="Dominate" class="wikilink" title="Dominate">Dominate</a>
or other <a href="Disciplines" class="wikilink"
title="Disciplines">Disciplines</a>, the level of the thrall's
<a href="Generation" class="wikilink" title="Generation">Generation</a>
or <a href="Blood_Potency" class="wikilink" title="Blood Potency">Blood
Potency</a> does not matter, making it an effective yet cruel tool.
Kindred may only bond as many vampire thralls as they have dots of
<a href="Blood_Potency" class="wikilink" title="Blood Potency">Blood
Potency</a>, and a thrall may only have one regnant which makes them
immune to other Bonding attempts while still Bound. Should a vampire
attempt to bond another thrall above their maximum Blood Potency limit,
their oldest thrall's Blood Bond will fade over the course of a week.
[1]

## Blood Bond system

The Bond Strength is equal to the number of times the thrall has
consumed the vitae of the regnant. The maximum level of Bond Strength is
6 and decreases by one each month the thrall does not consume the Blood.
Should they wish to attempt something against their master's wishes the
thrall must make a defiance test of Resolve + Intelligence vs. the
current Bond Strength level. When the regnant is present in the scene,
the test must be made once per turn. However, it is only made once per
scene if the regnant is not present.

In order to break the Blood Bond, the thrall must have their Bond
Strength reduced to 0 over time. The regnant might perhaps choose to
start refusing to give them blood. However, if the regnant is actively
searching and wishing to maintain the bond, the thrall must make the
defiance test once per session to avoid them, or more often, should the
Storyteller decide that the thrall is recalling the regnant in their
mind.[2]

## Blood Bonds in Kindred Society

The Blood Bond has a varied view in Kindred society. Some see in a
utilitarian way to control, with the regnants using the Bond to turn
their thralls into stalwart servants. The vampires who still feel and
care for emotions are in two camps: those that romanticize the Bond and
those who loathe its perversion. To the romantics the Bond as an avenue
to facilitate their love, even sealing their feelings in a Blood
Wedding. Older Kindred may have felt human emotions too distant and see
the Blood Bond as a way to feel love again. The ones who see the Bond as
a corruption of emotion just see a poor imitation of love that lacks the
genuine love.

Among the
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
sires use the Bond on their
<a href="Childe" class="wikilink" title="childer">childer</a> often
enough, but many
<a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarchs">Anarchs</a> find the
Bond immoral and reviled.[3] 

## Blood Wedding

Blood Marriage or Blood Wedding is the Blood Bond between two (or more)
mutual parties. The practice is rumored to have concurrently started by
the <a href="Toreador" class="wikilink" title="Toreador">Toreador</a>
and
<a href="Banu_Haqim" class="wikilink" title="Banu Haqim">Banu Haqim</a>
in the 11th century. It fell out of fashion in the Victorian era. The
Blood Wedding has come back in vogue in various domains, thanks to the
Vermillion Wedding. While the view of Blood Wedding is as conflicted as
the Blood Bond. Some cynics see it as a political tool at best to seal
alliances or foolish pursuits for personal relationships. Romantics see
Blood Weddings and the <a href="Vermillion_Wedding" class="wikilink"
title="Vermillion Wedding">Vermillion Wedding</a> as breaks the ennui of
unlife.[4][5]

Blood Wedding as a grand social occasion is more Camarilla coded these
nights. It can have extravagant parties, some which may even last
nights. Though they are very flexible and personalized there are some
structures. The parties declare or ask permission of union in front of
the higher authority, usually the Prince. Then both share at least a
drop of blood with one another.[6][7]

Blood Weddings have been used to seal alliances between domains or
organizations. In the Middle Ages there were sealed treaties and
affirmed mergers. Some optimists use this as a means to bring peace and
stability to a domain. Pragmatists of this practice see power, lineage,
and prestige as tantamount; with arranged marriages having little
concern for the wedded or their genders.[8][9]

Two examples on the extreme are the Vermillion Wedding and the Night of
Bloody Tears. The Vermillion Wedding between
<a href="Victoria_Ash" class="wikilink" title="Victoria Ash">Victoria
Ash</a> and Tegyrius sealed an alliance between the Camarilla and the
Ashirra, as well as welcomed the Banu Haqim into the Tower. The Blood
Wedding between
<a href="Anne_Bowesley" class="wikilink" title="Anne Bowesley">Anne
Bowesley</a> and Louise Maria de Rambaud  was supposed to cement
<a href="London,_UK" class="wikilink" title="London">London</a> closer
to the Camarilla, but it ended in a massacre, now called the Night of
Bloody Tears. The name is now an idiom of ill omen kindred saying with
Kindred hoping Blood Weddings aren’t “like the Night of Bloody
Tears.”[10][11]

## References

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 233-234

[2]

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Stained_Love" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Blood Stained Love">Vampire: The
Masquerade Blood Stained Love</a>, page 11-12

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Stained_Love" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Blood Stained Love">Vampire: The
Masquerade Blood Stained Love</a>, page 11

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 95

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Stained_Love" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Blood Stained Love">Vampire: The
Masquerade Blood Stained Love</a>, page 32

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 95-96

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 96

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_In_Memoriam" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade In Memoriam">Vampire: The Masquerade In
Memoriam</a>, page 90-93

[10]

[11]
