\_\_TOC\_\_ **Caitiff** exhibit no discernible lineage, the Caitiff are
vampires without a clan. Distrusted by their peers, they are scorned
because of their lack of lineage but also feared for their
unpredictability. Jacks of all trades but masters of none, each Pander
makes their own way in the society of the damned, free from ancestry and
expectations both.[1]

Representative of vampires in their purest form, the Caitiff do not
suffer from the lineage of their Blood. Due to this, they are usually
cast out by their clans either from shame, envy, or fear. The Caitiff
take their distance either in shame or pride, born from the unique
traits missing from their sire's clan. Caitiff embraces are not always
accidental; it's assumed that the clanless do not target mortals for the
embrace, but that is incorrect. In the modern night, the Panders are
becoming an increasingly large force. As survivors, most do not gather
together, and without their binding blood, they are more individualistic
than those within clans. The mortals they seek for the embrace are
generally strong-willed or accustomed to hardship. Their position in
Kindred society is the bottom of the rung, after all, only above the
[Thin-blood](./thinblood.md)
who shouldn't have been created at all. [2]

## Disciplines

Caitiff have access to all Disciplines, but remember they are not
considered in-clan even if taken at Character Creation.[3] Additional
purchases of Disciplines come at a cost of 6 times the level in
experience.

## Bane

<section begin=bane/>

**Outcast** - Untouched by their ancestors, the Caitiff do not share a
common Bane. The character begins with the Flaw Suspect (•) and they may
not purchase positive status during Character Creation. The Storyteller
may impose a 1-2 dice penalty to social tests against Kindred who know
they are Caitiff. To improve a Discipline, the cost is 6 times the level
of experience points.

<section end=bane/>

[4]

## Compulsion

<section begin=compulsion/>

Caitiff do not have a clan Compulsion.

<section end=compulsion/>

## Example archetypes

- **Secret Caitiff** - Biding their time, the Caitiff knows that they
  are not a member of the clan, but has learned the ins and outs of
  their sire's clan and with great skill replicates the bane or avoids
  all situations that might show their true nature.
- **Unwanted Childe** - There was nothing more than the idea of a strong
  childe that their sire wanted, but instead they were given a childe
  without their lineage flowing through their veins. In turn, the
  Caitiff was cast out, and rejected by those in their clan.

## Notable characters

**Maldavis** - Born Carol Davis, she had a run-in with a man that looked
like her late great-uncle Abraham DuSable. The night ended with the
[Tremere](./tremere.md) Embracing
her, but the Blood failing to take her into the clan. Taken in by
Anarchs, she soon counted herself among the Movement. She worked quickly
making a name for herself and rivaling former Chicago Prince Lodin. She
was secretly backed and manipulated by some Primogen malcontents. She
fought bravely and seemingly almost won Chicago, but Lodin made peace
with her backers. She was betrayed and defeated by a unified Camarilla.
Her closest allies died in an attempt to save her. She spent decades in
depression, but with Kevin Jackson as Prince, she is filled with her old
drive. She is ready to guide the Anarchs of Chicago once again.[5]

**<a href="Alejandra_Deluna" class="wikilink"
title="Alejandra Deluna">Alejandra Deluna</a>** - Fledgling posing as
childe of
<a href="Cecily_Bain" class="wikilink" title="Cecily Bain">Cecily
Bain</a>.[6]

<a href="Oksana_Koblenko" class="wikilink"
title="Oksana Koblenko"><strong>Oksana Koblenko</strong></a> -
Blackmailer for the
[Church of Set](./church_set.md).[7]

## Culture

### Embrace

When a Kindred from a clan tries to Embrace there is a small chance
something goes wrong, either the nature of the embrace or a mutation of
the Blood in their new childe. The Embrace takes, but it doesn’t carry
on the clan bane or subtle attraction clans have for one another.
Theories include Frenzy Embraces, weak human stock, supernatural
phenomena, etc., but no theory has ever been proven.[8] The childe of
these odd embraces are often abandoned, exiled, or choose to leave
themselves. A rumor circulates within Kindred circles that Caitiff are
only made this way and the clanless never pursue the embrace, this is
absolutely not true. While many Caitiff are a result of the Embrace not
passing on the Clan Curse and affinity for Disciplines, Caitiff may
decide to Embrace for reasons all their own, continuing the creation of
Caitiff. [9]

### Mortal Society

While Caitiff vary greatly from one another, especially those Embraced
by a Kindred with a clan, there are some noticeable niches. Through the
need to survive they manipulate mortals and weave webs of deceptions to
protect themselves. From either ostracism or Kindred politics, hunting
is a dangerous game for Caitiff; so many have taken to cultivating large
herds to safely feed on without poaching other Kindred lands; others
have adopted services like the Circulatory System. Some Caitiff treat
their herd and vessels as a tasting ground for new resonances to power
their mutable Blood. Whatever the means the Caitiff often tell
themselves they are better than most Kindred. This is just lying to
themselves as they manipulate and use mortals all the same, for they
need to survive and are still Kindred at the end of the night.[10][11]

### Kindred Society

Caitiff are thought to be an omen of the end times according to the
Church of Caine. Many other Kindred view them with distrust and some
Caitiff themselves feel they do not belong among the Kindred Clan even
if they have the rare sire willing to overlook their condition. This
places the Caitiff at the bottom of the hierarchy right above the
Thin-blood. [12]

Whether it is through a blood-borne impulse, shared identity, or similar
experiences, many clans are somewhat drawn to another clan mate to a
minute degree, but the Caitiff lack this completely. While other Kindred
can reflect on lineage or mutual unlife experience, the Caitiff lack
this, even with other Caitiff.[13] Though Caitiff will still form
coteries in order to survive as self preservation is paramount. Many are
slow to trust which may strain a coterie, but willing to see where a
prospective coterie goes if the other Kindred manage to work with them
they can become ardent supporters of the group. [14]

An enterprising Caitiff can turn their ambition to do anything and
knowledge of the fringes into a profit. Many turn to being hired guns, a
claness Scourge is not a rare sight these nights in the Camarilla and
Ashirra, as they know how to best find and hunt down Thin-bloods. In the
Anarch Movement they were on the frontline. They become useful tools or
even pets for the powerful Kindred of the domain. Many Caitiff are stuck
as enforcers rather than officers due to clan elitism, but some do
strive to be leaders of the domain. Those strong-willed Caitiff that
strive to be Prince or Baron must endure ridicule and prejudice for
flying above their station. [15] [16]

The night used to be perilous when elders would call for the
extermination of all Caitiff. There is still danger for Caitiff in the
night as Princes stuck in old traditions may still endorse the hunting
and slaughter of the clanless for sport. In other Domains the woes of
the city are blamed on the Freestylers. The Church of Caine is forever
their enemy as they go against all doctrine. This and their mutable
blood pairs them with Thin-bloods, something the Caitiff aids the
Duskborn and other times they are chips sacrificed to save the Clanless’
unlife. [17]

### Factional Differences

Caitff of the Anarch movement are sometimes seen as the best example of
being Unbound. No connection to hierarchy or blood curses. Even while
the Caitiff are seemingly praised for their clanless nature, many still
feel the sting of ostracism. Unable to relate to the Gangrel, Tzimisce,
Brujah, or Minister as they are able to connect with members of their
own. The faction too has Caitiff passed over for status, serving on the
front line, and pressed to sell out those lower than them for
usefulness. Even though many were part of the movement before the
Caitiff’s seniority got passed over for their cousins in a clan: the
Ministry and the Brujah. [18]

Some set out to find a place in the Ivory Tower, the ***Panders*** are
Caitiff who ignore the Tower’s years of bias for crumbs of power and
status. Some domains required sponsors for Caitiff to even be admitted.
That being said, the Ivory Tower does see the light when it comes to
Caitiff usefulness, often acquiring them as scourges and doers of dirty
jobs. These Panders are willing to sink low and attack Thin-bloods
either as a scourge or hounds for a bit of status. Of course, they never
get as much acclaim as an equivalent Kindred of a clan. [19]

There are many Caitiff who have found Kindred society is a losing game
of manipulation and gaslighting. These clanless don’t have a formal name
but are filled with cynicism at being used with false hope by the
Movement and like pawn pieces by the Camarilla. They typically call
Caitiff that associate with the Movement or Tower “sellouts.” [20]

## Gallery

<File:Maldavis> character.png|Maldavis <File:Alejandra> Deluna
character.png|Alejandra Deluna <File:Oksana> Koblenko.jpg|Oksana
Koblenko

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 105-106

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 107

[4]

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 102-104

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Winter&#39;s_Teeth" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Winter&#39;s Teeth">Vampire: The
Masquerade Winter's Teeth</a>

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 81-84

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 152

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, Page 106

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 154

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, Page 106

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, Page 105

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 152

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, Page 190

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 152

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, Page 125

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, Page 125

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 152

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 117

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, Page 125
