## Who are the Camarilla

<section begin=summary/>

The Camarilla is one of the most organized and influential Kindred
organizations in history. Their goal is to preserve the masquerade and
keep Kindred in line with rules that help protect their society from the
prying mortal eye. Beyond this, it is a conspiracy to help elders
preserve their power built on an undead secret society that influences
global business and politics. The Camarilla is the closest thing they
have to a system of government and an international union of cities. It
is completed by an inner circle and its Justicars and Archons that roam
the world to "keep the peace". A fierce moral stance is held on
preserving humanity even against the impulses of the Blood, seeing
themselves as shepherds to the herds of mortals they blindly control.
Many Camarilla members have a wealth of power and money, on top of their
age and the inclusion of Anarch defects joining their ranks makes the
sect distinctly upper class.

<section end=summary/>

[1]

### The Ashirra

The Ashirra are the Middle Eastern equivalent of the Camarilla, entirely
based on Islam to counter their vampiric impulses.[2] Instead of
traditions they use the five pillars of Islam as their code of conduct.
[3]

## Culture

They are the monsters that wear designer dresses one night before
throwing them away after a splattering of blood. They are the monsters
with meticulously created portfolios and houses guarded by servants
forced by the Blood. They are the one percent of the one percent who
always hunger for more and more power. Masters of disinformation,
propaganda, and blackmail allow them to maneuver and manipulate mortal
governing bodies or others who get in their way. A loose end never
remains loose for long with the tower and they do not hesitate to ruin
one who stands in their way in the name of protecting their influence.

Towers members may still cling to their religions from their mortal
lives, seeing Caine as nothing but a mythical figure and hoping their
religion will reveal more truths to them. Regardless of that, they still
worship their ancestors with the methuselahs serving the function of
saints in Christianity.[4]

When it is needed they gather in secret sanctuaries known as Elysium,
places which often change location to remain secret from mortals. In
here there are feasts and ceremonies, negotiations, or heated debates
all of which are protected and directed by the Keeper and their heralds.
[5]

While most members of the Camarilla see themselves as above the rabble
Anarchs, they do see some sects as peers or even possible partners. Due
to the <a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a> playing no favorites,
Justicars see the necessity of agreements between Kindred. These nights
Archons may carry messages of deep respect or arrangements for local
alliances and there's a chance it's a back-and-forth correspondence to
the Ashirra.[6]

### Red List

The Red List is a list of the most wanted Kindred for egregious acts
against the Camarilla. The wanted Kindred are called Anathema. Alastor
is the name for the Kindred who use various methods to track down the
Anathema. Camarilla domains started the practice with Lucinde’s actions
as “the first Alastor” when she hunted down infamous Kindred, as well as
repeat enmity from Ministry methuselah, Keminitri, in European Camarilla
domains.[7][8]

Lucinde holds a special hatred for the Anathema and still operates
coordinating teams of Alastor against the enemies of the Camarilla. She
and her agents employ various techniques of deep cover tactics to hunter
their prey.[9][10]

Though some Camarilla members have made calls to remove methuselah from
the Red List. They see it as both dangerous and arrogant; it may garner
unwanted attention from said blood god.[11]

## Structure

<figure>
<img src="Camarilla_Structure.png" title="Camarilla structure" />
<figcaption>Camarilla structure</figcaption>
</figure>

### Inner Circle

The names of the Inner Circle remain unknown, a tactic speculated to be
used to avoid revenge as it has no target and resistance cannot
flourish. What is known is that there are seven of them, but what clans
they are and who they are remains a mystery.[12]

### Justicars

With only five clans remaining within the tower, the Justicars hold more
responsibility and power than ever. Each are selected to a 13-year term
and few, save for the Ventrue, serve more than one. They decide the
matters of war and law and act as the voice of the inner circle. Beyond
these tasks, they also uphold the traditions. With their title they are
able to control any assets or resources of the Camarilla at will; this
also includes its members. When the majority of Clan Gangrel and Clan
Brujah departed from the sect, their Justicars were removed. Though
there are rumors spreading that a neutral Kindred will soon be appointed
as Justicar of Outsiders to represent the antitribu and officially
unaffiliated clans.

The current Justicars are;

- Juliet Parr of Clan Malkavian and former Sheriff of North London.
- Molly McDonald of Clan Nosferatu.
- Diana Iadanza of Clan Toreador and Bane of Clan Gangrel.
- Ian Carfax of Clan Tremere and former Archon of Karl Schrekt. (until
  2021)
- Lucinde of Clan Ventrue, titled "Justicar for unlife" in 2018.

The until the mass departure, the representatives for Clan Gangrel and
Clan Brujah were Geoffrey Leigh and Manuela Cardoso Pinto. Rumors do
circulate that a neutral Kindred may be appointed as Justicar of
Outsiders to represent the antitribu and officially unaffiliated
clans.[13]

### Archons

Beneath the Justicar are the Archons, who against what one might think,
are more than simple hired killers. While they are elite hired killers
and warriors, they are also scholars and investigators. Each Archon is
hand-selected by a Justicar and given only one chance to deny the
opportunity. Should they take it, they will be enforcing Camarilla law,
seeking out secrets, or spying on enemies of the tower. Some may operate
alone and others work within coteries. Often Justicars will
<a href="Blood_Bond" class="wikilink" title="blood bond">blood bond</a>
their Archons to themselves or to each other. Even if they are not bound
to anyone by blood they still have less freedom of action than the
Justicars. They can expect to be obeyed when they order the
<a href="Final_Death" class="wikilink" title="Final Death">Final
Death</a> of a Kindred. Due to this, Archons can destroy an entire
domain without an explanation.[14]

### Prince

Within a domain the Prince sits at the top, a vampire so impressive or
cunning enough to be acknowledged as the leader.

### Primogen

Beneath the Prince is their council of Primogen, built up of
representatives often from differing clans and representatives of the
major Camarilla factions. They may be clan elders or those who hold the
largest hunting grounds, they speak directly to the Prince and give
their own advice.[15]

Due to the
<a href="Beckoning" class="wikilink" title="Beckoning">Beckoning</a> and
the damage it has caused to domains, some Primogen councils now operate
on a rotational basis and others have limited their size to only three
or five members which will force an odd number and force votes to pass.
In smaller domains there might even be a rule that council members must
be under a century of age, believing that clan representatives should be
more in touch with contemporary culture and neonate ideals or
priorities. The duties of Primogen are as follows; Trial by Jury,
although the Prince has sole discretion of punishment, they may have the
Primogen convene to render the verdict of innocent or guilty. Advise and
consent, which occurs before the Prince makes any major decision
regarding the welfare of the domain, they are obliged to meet with and
discuss with the Primogen. This advice can of course be ignored, but it
is unwise as Princes are easily replaced.

Harpy Salamri once described, in jest, there there are six pedigrees of
Primogen councils.

- The Tribunal: Those who see themselves as both judge and jury and work
  endlessly to find the guilty and punish them.
- The Circle: The Primogens who are obsessed with equality and keeping
  balance.
- The Directors: With no time for frivolity, they do not see court to be
  worth the time and focus solely on business.
- The Patricians: Primogens who are convinced they are the most
  important Kindred within the domain and have inflated opinions of
  their status.
- The Union: Those who believe themselves as representatives of those
  without a voice and speak up for the "common ancilla".
- The Covert Committee: Primogens who do not attend court and rarely
  meet in person. They are elders and while they are still interested in
  politics, they primarily interact with each other and the Prince
  through letters and other proxies.[16]

#### Primogen examples

- Stephen Thunderhorse of Clan Ventrue, 13th Generation neonate who
  represents the new money and is known for his energy and bombastic
  manner as well as his sway over Kindred and kine. He resides in Rhode
  Island. [17]

### Seneschal

Sometimes a prince will select a seneschal, or personal advisor, to sit
with them and in some cases act as a replacement when the Prince is
unavailable. Order is held by the domain's Sheriff, a Kindred who acts
more of a hitman than a policing force. As the Camarilla frowns upon
modern ideas like due process, most executions take place without a
trial or the victim's ability to speak against the crimes they've been
blamed for.[18]

## The Traditions

Six traditions create the framework for governance among Kindred. While
they are open to interpretations in each domain and some are more
important than others, they are ancient traditions that all Camarilla
Kindred are aware of.

### The First Tradition: The Masquerade

<section begin="first tradition" />

*Thou shall not reveal thy true nature to those not of the Blood. Doing
such shall renounce thy claims of Blood.*

A tradition kept that is not only universally respected by both the
Camarilla and the Anarchs, but also the most broken. This represents the
Masquerade, the fact that humans must never know about the supernatural
which influences the careful nature all Kindred must have in order to
survive the modern age of technology. One slopping feeding, one missed
times action on a live stream or one mistimed confession to a mortal
lover could spell doom for those involved as the
<a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a> comes knocking down
the door to find the creatures who have breached. It is expected that
any issues created are quickly solved before something dire happens to
them or those they love.

<section end="first tradition" />

### The Second Tradition: The Domain

*Thy domain is thine own concern. All others owe thee respect while in
it. None may challenge thy word while in thy domain.*

Princes own the entire domain which more often than not is the entire
city. In some cases, however, they may grant smaller districts or city
blocks for others to rule over beneath them. These cases resemble the
ancient hierarchy of liege lords and lieges from the late Middle Ages
feudalism.

### The Third Tradition: The Progeny

*Thou shall only Sire another with the permission of thine elder. If
thou createst another without thine Elder's leave, both thou and thy
Progeny shall be slain.*

Whenever another vampire is sired, they must first ask for permission
from the Prince. Overpopulation is a risk to the Masquerade and
additional bodies can quickly become a serious threat.

### The Fourth Tradition: The Accounting

*Those thou create are thine own children. Until thy Progeny shall be
Released, thou shall command them in all things. Their sins are thine to
endure.*

Wayward childer are punished, as without that, their Sires are often
killed for their actions. Those who make the cut will join the Camarilla
alongside their sire and those who do not are cast out to the Anarchs to
be hunted, destroyed or stepped on.

### The Fifth Tradition: Hospitality

*Honor one another's domain. When thou comest to a foreign city, though
shall present thyself to the one who ruleth there. Without the word of
acceptance, thou art nothing.*

Keeping tabs on who is within the city has become difficult in the
modern age of refugees and global citizens. While some Princes erect
walls or attempt to control the borders through political means, others
give up on enforcing this law.

### The Sixth Tradition: Destruction

*Thou art forbidden to destroy another of thy kind. The right of
destruction belongeth only to thine Elder. Only the Eldest among thee
shall call the Blood Hunt.*

A Blood Hunt is a call to arms, one that allows other members of the
society to hunt another down and mercilessly kill them. This event even
calls Thin-bloods, Anarchs, and the Autarkis to become involved in the
murder party. Anything goes during this time, including Diablerie, and
it can only ever be called by the eldest which is often the Prince. It
is even seen that helping in one of these hunts is a good way to find
yourself approved of by the Camarilla, while joining one is frowned upon
by the Anarchs. [19]

## History

### The Dark Ages

The First Inquisition kicked off when humans discovered the existence of
vampires. With organization and faith, humans were adept at hunting
Kindred.[20] Some claim this was from Elder meddling and abuse of their
childer, using them as fodder; especially under the Blood Bond. [21]
[22] Others say it comes from Anarch Revolt recklessness, forgetting the
Masquerade, and various blood cults.[23]  The end result for either
account was the Second Inquisition and the First Anarch Revolt.

The sheer chaos soon wore on Kindred society; this pushed a peace of
sorts between the Anarchs and the Elders in 1493. The Kindred formed the
Camarilla with the seven clans Ventrue, Toreador, Brujah, Tremere,
Gangrel, Malkavian, and Nosferatu as a means of survival. [24] [25]
[26]  The Convention of Thorns codified the traditions for the
Camarilla. [27] [28] A group of Kindred decried the Anarch leaders and
elder’s alliance forming their own group to counter the Camarilla, the
Sabbat. [29] [30]

### The Sect War era

For the years that followed the Camarilla worked on expanding its
influence. There were a number of clashes in the New World over cities
and territory that came to be known as the Sect War. The encounters
heated up in the early 90s between the early 00s as the conflict for
influence in the New World grew bigger and bigger.  [31] [32] During the
tail end of this era the Gangrel left the Camarilla supposedly defecting
for Independent, but more socially savvy Gangrel funded Anarchs. [33]

### Birth of the Second Inquisition

During the War on Terror era in the early 2000s, the government agencies
begin to find hints of Kindred activity; Swiss bank accounts handed over
showing century-old accounts and the Kindred forum, SchreckNet.[34] 
Furthermore, the Inner Circle used the War on Terror as a tool to attack
the Sabbat in 2002. Nearing the mid-2000s the Second Inquisition focused
on all Kindred. The Camarilla leaked Anarch names to the FBI and NSA,
alleging only Anarchs could have leaked first or were responsible with
disregard to the Masquerade.[35] [36]

Kindred skeptical of technology and banks were proved right as many
tech-savvy Kindred havens were raided. Many of the Camarilla’s major
strongholds in Europe were lost. The Tremere’s head chantry and Domain,
Vienna, fell to a major Second Inquisition attack wiping it out.[37] 
Domains like
<a href="London,_UK" class="wikilink" title="London">London</a> and
Marseilles are rumored to be Kindred-free by the SI. Queen Anne, Prince
of <a href="London,_UK" class="wikilink" title="London">London</a> is
rumored dead, and <a href="Francois_Villon" class="wikilink"
title="Francois Villon">Francois Villon</a>, Prince of
<a href="Paris,_France" class="wikilink" title="Paris">Paris</a>, rules
in hiding; Paris is the Camarilla’s only crown jewel in Europe now.
[38][39][40][41] The Beckoning began to happen, a mysterious event where
oldest Kindred are called to the Middle East for the Gehenna War. This
resulted in the most powerful emptying Camarilla-held cities. [42]

### Brujah Defection

Conclave of Prague, sometimes called the Convention of Prague.  A
meeting of representatives of each Camarilla clan. There it was publicly
revealed by Anarch accounts of the Camarilla’s aim to toss the Anarchs
and Sabbat to the SI. This news is what seemed to kick off the breakdown
of the meeting and the expulsion of the Brujah and all Anarchs. [43]

Theo Bell was said to be the first to fire, shooting two prominent
Ventrue with incendiary rounds, co-founder of Camarilla, Hardestadt, and
Venture Representative, Pieterzoon. This prompted the Brujah to launch
an attack. During the chaos the two Ventrue dead and missing
respectively. This event kick-started the Brujah exodus from the
Camarilla. Brujah all over began to defect leaving domains and switching
cities.[44] [45] [46]  The Nosferatu feigned going Anarch only to sell
Brujah defection information to secure their place in the Camarilla.
Making up for their Scheknet debacle.[47] [48]Further revelation of the
Gangrel not really going Autarkis, but funding Anarchs. Prompted eyes on
the new Anarch threat. [49]

### The War of Ages

In response to these events, the Tower has recently forbidden any online
presence for Camarilla members. The Masquerade has become even more
paramount.[50] A new tactic of pushing the SI to Sabbat and Anarchs to
preserve the Tower. A notion to send Thin-bloods as fodder and day
agents. [51] Even if the Thin-bloods are typically not offered full
protection under Camarilla law. [52]

The Camarilla no longer count all Kindred under their protection, now
they see themselves as invite-only who look out for their own. Those
Kindred outside the Tower do not benefit from their resources. Anarchs
especially can not benefit from any of their assets. As far as Elysia
goes Anarchs usually need to denounce their sect or be invited to enter,
domain depending. [53] [54]  

The Camarilla did have good relations with one sect, the Ashirra; the
two started diplomatic talks. [55] [56] With a perfect storm of major
events: Second Inquisition, destruction of Vienna Chantry, Clan Tremere
Pyramid breaking, Brujah going Anarch, Ur Shulgi’s Rise, and Gehenna War
in the Middle East. The Camarilla and Ashirra made diplomatic overtures
to each other culminating in the Odense Pact and
<a href="Vermillion_Wedding" class="wikilink"
title="Vermillion Wedding">Vermillion Wedding</a>. This
<a href="Blood_Bond#Blood_Wedding" class="wikilink"
title="Blood Marriage">Blood Marriage</a> was a Blood Bond between
<a href="Victoria_Ash" class="wikilink" title="Victoria Ash">Victoria
Ash</a> of Clan Toreador and Tegyrius of the Banu Haqim. The former led
to the official entry of the Banu Haqim to the Camarilla. [57] [58]

As the Gehenna War peaked, the Lasombra clan also reached out to the
Camarilla to join. The keepers saw that the Sabbat began to devolve, the
elders were targeted by monstrous younger Kindred, and the Gehenna war
was fruitless. They snubbed the Anarch as Low Clan led by Gangrel and
Brujah, seeking to be with a High Clan lead organization. The Camarilla
imposed harsh demands on defectors that depended on domain policy,
Chicago was one of the first prominent cities delegations were sent to.
[59]

The Anarch Movement has proven more potent than before. An Anarch
uprising took Berlin from the Tower, once thought to be a stronghold of
the Camarilla. [60] [61] The Anarch spread their ideals to other domains
or lead attacks on vulnerable cities missing their elders.[62] The
Camarilla plans to endure and let the world burn their enemies while
they stay safe in their Tower.

## Prominent Kindred

<a href="Ventrue#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Hardestadt">Hardestadt</a>

<a href="Ventrue#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Fiorenza Savona">Fiorenza Savona</a>

<a href="Kevin_Jackson" class="wikilink"
title="Prince Kevin Jackson">Prince Kevin Jackson</a>

<a href="Victoria_Ash" class="wikilink" title="Victoria Ash">Victoria
Ash</a>

<a href="Toreador#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Rafael de Corazon">Rafael de Corazon</a>

<a href="Francois_Villon" class="wikilink"
title="Prince Francois Villon">Prince Francois Villon</a>

<a href="Malkavian#Notable_characters" class="wikilink"
title="Justicar Juliet Parr">Justicar Juliet Parr</a>

<a href="Hazel_Iversen" class="wikilink"
title="Prince Hazel Iversen">Prince Hazel Iversen</a>

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Factions" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Factions">Category:Factions</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 49

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 51

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, 23

[4]

[5]

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 15-16

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Gehenna_War" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Gehenna War">Vampire: The Masquerade
Gehenna War</a>, page 26

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, page 162

[9]

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 61

[11]

[12]

[13]

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, 13-14

[15]

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 103

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 103-104

[18]

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 51-52

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 68

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 19-20

[22] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, pages 92

[23] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 168-169

[24]

[25] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 123

[26]

[27] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 42

[28] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 49-51

[29] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 20

[30] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Pages 91-93

[31] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 394

[32] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 170

[33] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 171-173

[34] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 56

[35]

[36] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 68-70

[37] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 121

[38] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 117

[39] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 71

[40] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 78

[41] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 116

[42] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 37-39

[43] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 34

[44] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 175-176

[45] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 383

[46]

[47] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 152

[48] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 84

[49] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 172-173

[50] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 46

[51] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 79

[52] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 105

[53] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 12

[54]

[55] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 17-18

[56] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 158-159

[57]

[58]

[59] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 39 - 45

[60] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 76

[61] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 111-112

[62] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 54 - 55
