## Sample Compulsions

### Hunger

The vampire will do whatever it takes to slake their hunger, any action
taken that does immediately lead to obtaining blood suffers a two-dice
penalty. This ends when the vampire slakes at least 1
<a href="Hunger_system" class="wikilink" title="Hunger">Hunger</a>
level.[1]

### Dominance

The vampire's next action is a competition and they desire to gloat in
the face of someone they beat. During this time they are unable to
utilize teamwork or any actions taken not leading to gloating,
establishing dominance or challenging authority at a two-dice penalty.
This ends when they have beaten someone in some way and gloated over
it.[2]

### Harm

The vampire desires to inflict harm, be it social, mental or physical
harm. Any actions not immediately resulting in someone else's pain, the
vampire suffers a two-dice penalty. This ends once they have driven
away, incapacitates or destroys a target. If the target is an object
rather than a person, it must hold serious value to someone.[3]

### Paranoia

The vampire becomes overwhelmed with fearful paranoia, looking to
disengage from a threat or suspecting anyone near them. Any action not
taken to getting them somewhere safe suffers a two-dice penalty. This
ends when they have spent roughly an hour in a safe place.[4]

### Insurmountable Regrets

The vampire is haunted by the memory of something that they did or
didn't do when it really mattered. They gain the Compulsion to redo what
they did wrong. It comes in two variants:[5]

- Regret of Inaction: The vampire regrets something they didn't do, this
  Compulsion causes as overwhelming desire to take action. They feel
  compelled to make the most aggressive choice when in a dilemma.
  Actions taken to resist the Compulsion are done at a two-dice penalty.
  The Compulsion ends when given into.[6]
- Regret of Action: The vampire regrets something they did, this
  Compulsion causes them to hesitate. When they suffer from it, they
  feel compelled to withdraw and think everything through thoroughly
  before they act. They get a -2 penalty to all pool until they've had a
  chance to withdraw and spent a scene in solitude. If in combat, forego
  initiative ranking: the vampire will go last. They can spend a level
  of Willpower to end the Compulsion early.[7]

### Need

The victim becomes obsessed with satisfying a desire in a scene. Any
action not taken towards this purpose suffers a two-dice penalty. The
compulsion ends when the need is satisfied or the object of desire
becomes unattainable[8]

## Clan Compulsions

### Banu Haqim

{{#lst:Banu Haqim|compulsion}}

### Brujah

{{#lst:Brujah|compulsion}}

### Gangrel

{{#lst:Gangrel|compulsion}}

### Caitiff

{{#lst:Caitiff|compulsion}}

### Hecata

{{#lst:Hecata|compulsion}}

### Lasombra

{{#lst:Lasombra|compulsion}}

### Malkavian

{{#lst:Malkavian|compulsion}}

### The Ministry

{{#lst:The Ministry|compulsion}}

### Nosferatu

{{#lst:Nosferatu|compulsion}}

### Ravnos

{{#lst:Ravnos|compulsion}}

### Salubri

{{#lst:Salubri|compulsion}}

### Toreador

{{#lst:Toreador|compulsion}}

### Tremere

{{#lst:Tremere|compulsion}}

### Tzimisce

{{#lst:Tzimisce|compulsion}}

### Ventrue

{{#lst:Ventrue|compulsion}}

### Thin-blood

{{#lst:Thin-blood|compulsion}}

## References

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 208

[2]

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 209

[4]

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_In_Memoriam" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade In Memoriam">Vampire: The Masquerade In
Memoriam</a>, page 135

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_In_Memoriam" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade In Memoriam">Vampire: The Masquerade In
Memoriam</a>, page 136

[7]

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Tattered_Façade" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Tattered Façade,">Vampire: The Masquerade
Tattered Façade,</a>page 105
