## Overview

A character's health is derived from their Stamina + 3. In general, it
is received during physical conflicts with a contest being made. The
margin of the winner's roll against the losers is added to the loser's
health tracker as damage. If the winner is using a weapon with a
modifier, that is added to the total damage with the margin. There are
two different types of damage that can fill a character's health
tracker, Superficial damage and Aggravated damage.

When tracking damage to their health tracker, Superficial damage is
tracked with an "/" on one of the boxes per point taken, with Aggravated
tracked using an "X" in each box per point taken. If a character manages
to fill their entire tracker, either with one type or a mix of the two,
they are now Impaired. Impairment causes a penalty of -2 from Physical
pools. Following this impairment, any point of damage they take will
convert any Superficial into Aggravated on a one-for-one basis. When a
character's tracker is filled entirely with Aggravated damage they are
out of the combat, if they are mortal they are either dead or comatose
and if they are Kindred they fall into
<a href="Torpor" class="wikilink" title="Torpor">Torpor</a>.

### Superficial damage

Superficial damage is bruising and small cuts, but nothing that is
life-threatening. Kicking, punching, and any non-lethal weapon do
Superficial damage to humans. Standard weapons do Superficial damage to
vampires, this includes slashing, stabbing, and piercing weapons. In
general, this type of damage is halved before adding it to the tracker
and this includes when converting Superficial to Aggravated.

### Aggravated damage

Aggravated damage is broken bones, serious wounds, and other
life-threatening injuries. Sharp and piercing weapons do Aggravated
damage to humans. Generally, only fire, sunlight and the claws or teeth
of other supernatural creatures do Aggravated damage to Kindred.

### Healing damage

Mortals may remove a number of Superficial damage equal to their Stamina
rating at the beginning of a session. With Aggravated damage mortals can
have their damage converted from Aggravated to Superficial with an
Intelligence + Medicine test. The maximum amount able to be converted is
equal to half of the character's Medicine rating rounded up with the
healing happening over the course of the night. A mortal being
hospitalized removes the need for rolls but takes the amount of
Aggravated damage received as the total number of weeks required to heal
fully. [1]

When healing Superficial damage Kindred can remove a number of
Superficial damage levels from their Health tracker by making one
<a href="Rouse_Check" class="wikilink" title="Rouse Check">Rouse
Check</a> per turn, with the number removed dependent on their
<a href="Blood_Potency" class="wikilink" title="Blood Potency">Blood
Potency</a>. With Aggravated damage, Kindred may mend one level of
Aggravated damage by making three Rouse Checks at the beginning of a
session in addition to the wake-up Rouse Check. This will only heal one
point of damage and will remove any Crippling Injury or similar
impairments, this can only be done once per night.[2]

## References

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 126-127

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 218-219
