## Overview

<section begin=summary/>

Indianapolis, Indiana is an American city in both the Rust Belt and
Bible Belt. Formerly under the influence of
<a href="Sabbat" class="wikilink" title="Sabbat">Sabbat</a> agents, it
is now in the hands of the
<a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarchs">Anarchs</a> thanks to
<a href="the_Ministry" class="wikilink" title="the Ministry">the
Ministry</a>. This is the first Ministry-led city in America.

<section end=summary/>

[1]

## Notable Kindred of the city

### Ministry-led Anarchs

**Dignitaries:** Representatives to those outside the clan, what some
Anarchs may call Emissaries. They report arrivals and departures of
other <a href="Kindred" class="wikilink" title="Kindred">Kindred</a>,
deliver the clan’s will, aid others in clan goals, and alert others of
dangers. [2]

- Keisha Phelps, The Ministry
- Zayne Morales,
  <a href="Brujah" class="wikilink" title="Brujah">Brujah</a>

**Shepherds:** Kindred elected to help guide Kindred back to their
humanity. The Church of Set, Christian, Muslim, or secular if anything
the Anarch Movement welcomed Religion diversity in this practice. Anyone
who try to help Kindred in such a way are called Shepherds. [3]

- Father Melvyn Ramsay, The Ministry, de facto leader  (Missing)
- Djedefre, The
  Ministry/<a href="Church_of_Set" class="wikilink" title="Church of Set">Church of
  Set</a>

**Guides:** Other Ministers in the city are considered guides. Their job
is to keep eyes and ears open for newcomers or new Kindred needing their
help to stability. [4]

- Tyrone “Coach” Soros, The Ministry
- Freddie Montgomery, The Ministry

### Other notable Kindred:

- Bruce Schechter, Brujah - An emissary from the Anarch Free States
  seeing what he can learn from the city. He is excited and horrified
  with how the Ministry runs Indianapolis. [5]
- <a href="Eletria" class="wikilink" title="Eletria">Eletria</a>,
  <a href="Toreador" class="wikilink" title="Toreador">Toreador</a> - An
  ancient Spartan, former Prince of Veracruz. She is the owner of the
  Lhiannan club. While
  <a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
  aligned, she stays and staves off the beckoning to enjoy her freedom
  from the blood bond and atonement for her deeds while under her sire,
  <a href="Helena" class="wikilink" title="Helena">Helena</a>. [6][7][8]
- Marion Davies, Toreador - The co-owner of the Lhiannan club and
  ensures the club stays popular. She is a trans woman who left
  <a href="Chicago,_Illinois" class="wikilink" title="Chicago">Chicago</a>
  after falling out with her sire. Now she is an information broker and
  Eletria’s go to woman. [9][10]

## Prominent locations

### Lhiannan Club

Similar in looks to the Succubus Club and a bit of the Asylum. The bar
is filled with heavy drinking and there are bathrooms where people are
doing drugs. The club is split in two by a mosaic glass wall: the front
plays more pop house music and the back is more akin to a rave. Those in
the front can see the silhouettes of the ravers in the back through the
mosaic glass buffer. The club has balconies and no second floor so
watchers may look down on the two dance floors. Downstairs is a private
bar for those on the list and the owners, Eletria and Marion Davies.
[11]

### Union Station

A historic hotel in the heart of downtown Indianapolis. It is popular to
be used for events, meetings, and for those who love trains, as the
hotel incorporates train cars as rooms for various purposes. Among
Kindred this makes a decent neutral ground for meetings and discussions.
It is also a hub for much of public transportation and taxis in the
city. [12]

### St. Isaac of the Runes

An unassuming gray building with golden doors, many locals believe to be
the place of Masonic order. The opening and outside are mundane enough
but the inside has designs and artifacts from Egypt and surrounding
African countries. It is frequented by well dressed people. This is a
location for the Church of Set; the Temple is run by Djedefre. [13]

### The Eiteljorg Museum

The Eiteljorg Museum of American Indians and Western Art features art
and history of the native Miami people of the land, from their life on
the land to their forced relocation to Oklahoma. The exhibits include
artifacts and stores that are on rotation. In the adjacent building is
an art gallery with many pieces. The building is used by the Ministry to
host both clan meetings and meetings with visiting diplomats. [14]

## Important events

The land was originally settled by the native Americans of the
Potawatomi, Wea, Delaware, and Miami tribes until white settlers claimed
the basin lands for themselves in 1818. The settlement took years to
grow into a city of note, largely focused on crops and farming. Melvyn
Ramsay, of the Ministry, then Follower of Set, was attracted to the
city; he saw its central location had promising prospects for his clan.

The city was first a crossroads for farmers, then a crucial stop for the
Underground Railroad swelling the number of black Americans. When the
Civil War broke out and eventually the steel industry took off, both
events made the city prosper. Then the automobile industry and natural
gas drew the
<a href="Ventrue" class="wikilink" title="Ventrue">Ventrue</a> to the
city. This all while Melvyn Ramsay, now calling himself “Father” watched
and manipulated the city. Still, no single clan dominated the city, and
it lacked a resilient structure to resist the Sabbat.

The Sabbat attacked, inflicting final death or torpor on many. The
Sabbat Kindred dug into the city for the latter half of the 20th century
and established a domain. The Setites were able to turn the tide as many
saw God and Set as one; they believed it was a holy mission to reclaim
the city. The Setites used their influence in religious organizations
and religious pawns to strike at the Sabbat. This was all done under
Ramsay’s leadership, as they manipulated their thralls against the
Sabbat agents.

The clan claimed the city after their crusade, then had their schism
become the Ministry. Ramsay was ready to claim this city for the
Camarilla, but then the
<a href="Paris,_France" class="wikilink" title="Paris">Paris</a>
incident happened, where the Ministry entry into the Camarilla was
sabotaged. Ramsay adjusted to the new political situation and continued
preaching both Set and Ministry ideas under the Anarchs. He found that
the Movement made it easier for them to prosper. There are some members
of the Church of Set in the city with temples, but most are of the new
Ministry ideals, even Ramsay himself. Melvyn eventually disappears; some
think he was
<a href="Beckoning" class="wikilink" title="Beckoned">Beckoned</a> to
Egypt, and some think something more sinister happened. This has left
his protege, Keisha, with much power but the city without its usual
central guiding hand.

The city doesn’t only attract religious Kindred, but also those looking
to escape the Camarilla. The city offers a certain freedom that some
Kindred never felt. The city boasts that it is a place where Kindred are
free on a personal or political basis to explore themselves so long as
no other Kindred is hurt. Their is a darker side of this philosophy:
wights, hedonism, and masquerade breaches. [15]

## The Enlightened Guidelines

There are few rules in Indianapolis. The Ministry and Melvyn had put
forth four simple rules. [16]

### The Masquerade

Many of the Ministry wants to keep the city and their flock safe. It is
a struggle, but this rule is upheld. The shepherds try to guide low
humanity vampires to stability or higher humanity pragmatically. Some
say only select clans. Others may be exiled to protect the city, usually
to Camarilla domains.

### Respect the Spirit

An original rule from Melvyn Ramsay himself, for no one to disrupt
another Kindred’s spiritual journey; no matter how perverse or it makes
others degenerate. Many of the city's Ministry claim this is the most
important rule, while treating those of different faiths lower and
targets to be “freed”.

### Freedom of the Blood

The
<a href="Blood_Bond" class="wikilink" title="Blood Bond">Blood Bond</a>
between Kindred is illegal in the city. The Blood Bond is considered
incompatible with the “Respect the Spirit” rule.  Those who are found to
have the bond have to drink from Merenhor to freely walk the spiritual
path. Merenhor is thought to be rumor, ploy, or old Minister.

### Grace of Introductions

Those that enter the city must meet a dignitary. This is to make sure
the newcomers isn’t a destructive force or a member of the Sabbat. Those
that don’t often face blackmail, shunning, and accidents.

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Locations" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Locations">Category:Locations</a>
<a href="Category:United_States_Cities" class="wikilink"
title="Category:United States Cities">Category:United States Cities</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 105

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 108

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 108-109

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 109

[5]

[6]

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 207

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 225

[9]

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 209

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 111-113

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 119

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 118

[14]

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 105-109

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 109-110
