\_\_TOC\_\_ **Lasombra** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of
Vampire: The Masquerade. Creatures subtly at odds with mundane reality,
Lasombra vampires are expected to triumph at any cost. Ruthlessness is a
sought-after trait in progeny, making their reputation as betraying
interlopers well deserved. Most do not seek attention, preferring to act
as puppeteers, powers behind the proverbial throne. To a Shadow, the
ends justify any means.[1]

The Lasombra rarely have time for the weak, with a perspective that the
only way to survive is to excel. Sympathy and morality do nothing but
weigh them down and prevent their inevitable climb to power. They
generally <a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a>
those who fought against the odds and came out on top, those who survive
dangerous situations or otherwise exemplify excellence. Their childer
tend to be targeted towards those who are fit for something beyond
mortal life, such as sociopaths, deviants or other scarred survivors.
The Magisters also tend to lean heavily into organized religion to find
their new prospective, however they are not looking for the truly
faithful or depraved souls, instead they seek out those who arose to
power in the church from a desire to have complete control. Priests,
nuns, monks, vicars or rabbis who have used their congregation as a tool
to bolster their power. [2]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Lasombra as well as the uses they
find in it. [3]

- **Dominate** is the reason they are able to crush wills and command
  obedience, they will without hesitation use this power to feed.
- **Oblivion** enriches their Blood and allows them to manipulate and
  control shadows around them.
- **Potence** is the reason some Kindred are able to display such feats
  of strength unseen by man, however they do not generally use this to
  feed, instead using it to crush their enemies in demands of respect.

## Bane

<section begin="bane" />

**Distorted Image** - In reflections or recordings (live or not) the
Lasombra appear to be distorted; those who know what vampires are know
precisely what's going on, while others might be confused but know
something is wrong. This does not however, hide their identity with any
certainty and they are not likely to be caught more often on
surveillance than any other Kindred. In addition to this, modern
technology which includes making a phone call requires a Technology test
at Difficulty 2 + Bane Severity as microphones struggle with them as
much as cameras. Avoiding any electronic vampire detection system is
also done with a penalty equal to their Bane Severity.

<section end="bane" />

[4]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Callousness** - Whenever making a Remorse test remove a number of dice
equal to the Bane Severity. The dice pool cannot be reduced below 1.

<section end="altbane" />

[5]

## Compulsion

<section begin="compulsion" />

**Ruthlessness** - The next time the vampire fails an action they
receive a two-dice penalty to all rolls until a future attempt at the
same action succeeds. This penalty applies to future attempts of the
same action still.

<section end="compulsion" />

[6]

## Example archetypes

- **Religious Parasite** - Through their congregation they grow their
  power, hiding behind the faithful they sway the true believers to
  elevate themself onto a pedestal.
- **Ambitious Winner** - This winner at life strived in every sport and
  won, determined and able enough to take down anyone that opposed them.
  This translated into their unlife, even if they truly aren't the
  brightest their ambition keeps them at the head of the pack.
- 

## Notable characters

**Montano** - With the clan having shifted towards the Camarilla in the
modern night they now sing his praises. Some claim that it was by his
will that Christianity rose to its prominence. When the vampire society
originally split, he was one of the few to not join the
[Sabbat](./sabbat.md), but join
the newly formed
[Camarilla](./camarilla.md) and
. [7]

**Talley** - The cold, professional hitman and former high ranking
Sabbat member possesses mastery of Oblivion. Though he usually resides
in Washington DC defending major Lasombra powerbases. Soon the elders of
the clan approached him with a special job. The brutal Shadow began to
work on facilitating the Lasombra's entry into the Chicago Camarilla. In
this efforts, he is said to have defeated Lucita in battle and brought
her [Final Death](./final_death.md). [8]

**Lucita** **de Aragón** - Lasombra Antitribu, and Archbishop of Madrid
and follower of the Path of Night, a variant of the Path of Cathari. The
once-rival and lover of Fatima, Lucita is high profile Sabbat member who
still uses her human name; Madrid was usually her domain, but it is now
contested with the Camarilla. It is said Talley succeeded in killing the
Archbishop, but rumors state her pack of over a hundred is still being
directed in Spain.[9][10][11]

**Sierra van Burrace** - Childe of Talley, her strong skills as a
negotiator and businessperson impressed Talley as much as her calm in
cleaning a murder scene. Even during her tenure as antitribu, she showed
restraint rather than follow other Lasombra in degeneration, increasing
her resources and influence. Even while bound to a pack, she still
showed loyalty to her sire and the Amici Noctis. For this she and her
brother-in-vitae were eventually selected for the Lasombra delegation to
[Chicago](./chicago_ill.md)
Camarilla. With this offer on the table she sent her pack on a suicide
mission so she can be free pursue her new duties as ambassador.[12]

**Malenkov** - Childe of Talley and war hero of the Sabbat for his
service in the Sect war. A survivalist to the core he had long fought to
survive and succeed. His years of wars and bloodlust had slide him
dangerously close to [Wassail](./humanity.md#humanity-0) for ages even with the path system. He
thought he would meet his end in the Gehenna war, but instead Talley has
selected him and Sierra, his sister-in-vitae, to act as envoys to the
Chicago Camarilla.[13]

## Culture

### Embrace

The Lasombra prefer to
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a> those
that beat the odds. The people who survive dangerous situations, dire
odds, and sit at the top at a level of success. Those deemed fit for
more than a mere human life are targeted. They also are drawn to those
who see the dark side of the world and come back stronger:
counter-culturalists, deviants, and scarred survivors. The last group of
popular Embraces are those from religious organizations. Corrupt
religious officials who use their office for power and control rather
than altruism make ideal childer. Some even go as far as to create
adversity from the shadows to see if their prospective childe will
succeed and earn the Embrace.[14]

### Mortal society

The Lasombra most infamous realm of influence is the Church. Many
younger members may not know or have yet adopted the religious strategy,
but the Clan of Night’s method is effective. They can’t elect a pope, or
influence body wide doctrine, but they can access secret
[Vatican](./second_inquisition.md#the-vatican) files, have religious institutions work as
their eyes and ears, or even manipulate a religious body at a regional
level. This still proves effective in the New World with the dominance
of the Catholic Church in Central and South America as well as the
number of Protestant churches in North America.

Most Keepers only use the Church for power rather than spirituality,
even the elders of the clan decree this method is the most preferential.
Churches can be used for havens where the Lasombra sleeps underneath
during the day, congregations can be turned into a herd of blood dolls,
and turning priests into retainers so serve the Keeper's will. The
Lasombra's knack for hiding behind religious institutions and performing
horrible acts in the dark are legendary.

Not all Lasombra are drawn to the Church; there are some that occupied
other realms, media field is an example. As long as the Lasombra feels
they are able to court influence and eventually triumph to prove their
superiority they will go that path of power. That is why some secular
Lasombra are beings who are at the top of their field and continue to do
so in unlife. Lording their success over the mortals and
unworthy.[15][16]

### Kindred society

Due to the devolution of the Sabbat and the elders of the clan realizing
they were threatened by the Sabbat crusade, the main body of the clan
made political motions to the Camarilla for admittance. Elder who call
for revolution of the old realized they were the ones their childers and
great childer may aim for next. This notion of joining the Camarilla
wasn’t just supported by the elders, some of the younger members saw
this as an opportunity. No longer forced to be Bound to each other and
some pact priest just to be used solely to fight the crusade. They also
appreciate the blood tax the Camarilla may call for, the sacrifice of an
elder [Sabbat](./sabbat.md)
member.

The Lasombra has made diplomatic meetings all over with Chicago is being
of the famous ones. The induction of the Keepers is not without a cost,
some cities call for different stipulations and tributes than others.
Some domains may call for a moratorium for Lasombra to be able to hold
titles, limit the number of Keepers,
[Blood Bond](./blood_bond.md),
or even ask for an elder to sacrifice. Of course this differs from
domain to domain, some Prince in dire straits may be more lenient on
what they impose as entry fees.

The clan is seen to have fickle loyalties now by Kindred, but the
Shadows are willing to prove their worth as ruthless strategists. In
domains where they are allowed to hold titles, they have made fast gains
both by virtue of their need to triumph and by the current state of the
Camarilla. Clan
[Tremere](./tremere.md)’s
fracturing has offered a break in the Warlock’s influence that the
[Banu Haqim](./banu.md)
and Lasombra compete for. In some domains this has become the case as
Ventrue Princes love to lord over Lasombra, placing them as advisors,
personal bodyguards, regents, etc. Many Lasombra are happy to take the
titles given and slowly carve a place for themselves in the sect. This
act has caused Clan
[Toreador](./toreador.md) much
annoyance, being rivals and passed over by newcomers when Roses were
Camarilla founders.

Plenty members of Clan Lasombra are at war with themselves. Pushing to
grasp at titles, outmaneuver their foes and succeed. There are parallels
to the [Ventrue](./ventrue.md),
but power is only a byproduct of the Lasombra needing to triumph and be
on top. Many are aware of how their Blood pushes and the restraint they
need to exercise. Though they can be feral beasts doing anything to win
they usually settle to take up a more calculated and safe approach. With
the nights filled with the [Second Inquisition](./second_inquisition.md) surveillance and the
Camarilla’s wary eye, they need to adapt to survive.[17]

In coteries, the Lasombra are known to be ruthlessly efficient. They
will generally not take half-measures in their drive for success. This
makes them excellent allies to have. Most Lasombra see a coterie as a
tool, a means to drive success. Success brings rewards, while failure
gives experience and growth. One can be mistaken to think the Lasombra
see the parts of the coteries as tools too. The Keepers see the members
and the need for an obligation to each other. They know the worth of
collective cooperation and the worthiness in celebrating victories. They
typically excel in coteries where espionage is paramount. Though
Lasombra are still newcomers to the sect, embellished stories of Keepers
backstabbing and sacrificing coterie members float around making others
keep a wary eye on these Kindred. [18]

#### Amici Noctis

“The Friends of the Night” in English. This group is of clan legend, the
Lasombra’s inner council of vampires chosen from the most capable for
clan interests above all. Traditionally they are a stabilizing force
banning in-clan assassination,
[diablerie](./diablerie.md), or
power grabs without them sanctioning such actions. If they are going to
do it, might as well be productive about it.

The seats are said to be filled with Lasombra of various ages. The only
stipulation to be a member is to provide evidence of overcoming hostile
circumstances. This council is surprisingly bipartisan, even having
Sabbat Lasombra with seats, of course such a council causes the Sabbat
to try to assassinate the Sabbat Lasombra habitually.

They are the ones to use their influence to change the clan’s sects and
use their devoted agents, such as Talley, to act as envoys to Camarilla
princes and assassins to resist Lasombra. Of course while they remain
unknown, they have made a backroom deal to exclude themselves as
tributes for entry to the Camarilla.

They are similar to the shadowy
[Directorate](./ventrue.md#the-directorate) of Clan
[Ventrue](./ventrue.md).[19]

### Factional differences

The Camarilla Lasombra are members of the clan who have gone along with
the agenda of the Amici Noctis to change sides. Some may have changed
their side based on new opportunities or the degeneration of the Sabbat.
There are some Lasombra that have seen the fruitlessness and fear of the
Gehenna War. There are reports that either their antediluvian or some
old Methuselah is alive and devouring younger vampires in droves. These
reports and the power of the ancient had made some elder and foot
soldier Lasombra adamant that the Sabbat are doomed. Leading to them
working to advance their place in the Camarilla.

Many Lasombra turn their noses up at the
[Anarchs](./anarch.md), they want
to be free of their elders control but want to rule a hierarchy not get
rid of it. They would rather throw in the with High Clans than go Anarch
and “lay with the dogs.” [20]

About half the clan remain in the Sabbat. Like other members in modern
nights they want to transcend the trappings of clans, they call
themselves *Lasombra antitribu*. They are thought to be degenerates the
clan broke from. Once the heart of the Sabbat, many Sabbat regard the
Lasombra with disdain and suspicion now.[21][22]

## Exclusive Loresheets

Lasombra characters have special access to the following loresheets:

• [Descendant of Montano](./loresheets.md#descendant-of-montano)

## Gallery

<File:Montano> character.png|Montano <File:Talley> character.png|Talley
<File:Sierra> van Burrace character.png|Sierra van Burrace
<File:Malenkov> character.png|Malenkov <File:Lucita.jpg%7CLucita> de
Aragón

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 289-290

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 291

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 292

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 57

[6]

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 274

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 134-137

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 81

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 185

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 286

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 126-129

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 344-345

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 289-290

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 40-41

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 291

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 39-45

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 33-34

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 43-44

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 43-45

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 19

[22] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 80
