\_\_TOC\_\_ **Malkavian** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of
Vampire: The Masquerade. Derided as Lunatics by other vampires, the
Blood of the Malkavians lets them perceive and foretell truths hidden
from others. Like the “wise madmen” of poetry their fractured
perspective stems from seeing too much of the world at once, from
understanding too deeply, and feeling emotions that are just too strong
to bear.[1]

Their <a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embraces">Embraces</a>
come from all walks of life and age, with most Embraces carries
something that was only visible to the sire. One the gifts sought is
called the "Second Sight" or, the ability to understand dreams, perceive
spirits or predict the future to some successful degree. The second gift
is that of "insight", otherwise known as someone who is highly
empathetic up to finely-tuned knowledge of a subject. Due to this many
of the clan come from professions in academics or doctors. Lastly, they
hold interest in those they deem "broken" by traumatic events. Due to
these traits and their general instability, most Kindred never feel
comfortable around a known Malkavian, often viewing them as
unpredictable who is rarely worth the effort.

Some Children of Malkav claim that there is a common trait they all
share. Believed to be connected through a psychic link, a wavelength of
sorts called the Cobweb or more recently titled the Network.[2][3]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Malkavians as well as the uses they
find in it. [4]

- **Auspex** enriches their senses in order to play on their victim's
  weaknesses.
- **Dominate** gives them the power of Dementation, utilized by the
  Malkavian to drive others mad.
- **Obfuscate** remains a discipline they do not advertise, but gives
  them the ability to traverse unseen when desiring information or
  blood.

## Bane

<section begin="bane" />

**Fractured Perspective** - When suffering a Bestial Failure or a
Compulsion, their mental derangement comes to the forefront. Suffers a
penalty equal to their Bane Severity to one category of dice pools
(Physical, Social or Mental) for the entire scene. The penalty and
nature of the affliction are decided between the player and Storyteller
during character creation.

<section end="bane" />

[5]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Unnatural Manifestations** - Using Discipline powers within close
proximity of mortals scares them and any social interactions other than
Intimidation suffer a dice penalty equal to their Bane Severity. This is
not
<a href="Masquerade" class="wikilink" title="Masquerade">Masquerade</a>-breaking,
but the dislike remains for the duration of one scene. Other vampires
subject to this recognize the Malkavian as a vampire but suffer no
penalty.

<section end="altbane" />

[6]

## Compulsion

<section begin="compulsion" />

**Delusion** - Whether it's figments of their imagination or
extrasensory perception of the truths. For one scene, the Malkavian
suffers a 2 dice penalty to rolls involving Dexterity, Manipulation,
Composure, and Wits. As well as rolls to resist terror
<a href="Frenzy" class="wikilink" title="Frenzy">Frenzy</a>.

<section end="compulsion" />

[7]

## Example archetypes

- **Medium** - In life they worked with the occult, piercing whatever
  the mortal eye could either as truthfully as they could or as a scam.
  In death, they continue this work but now aided by their vampiric
  powers.
- **Conspiracy Theorist** - There was something they weren't being told.
  Bigfoot was real and they were determined to prove it. That
  determination has only shifted now in death, driving them to find out
  the unknown.
- **Broken Soul** - Life dealt them a bad hand, scarring them forever.
  If unlife has done anything better for them it is still unknown.
- **Reporter** - With their ability to perceive truths and fragments of
  future events, they utilize their skill with Auspex to gather all the
  information they can for the biggest scoop of their life.

## Notable characters

**Jeanette/Therese Voerman** - Malkavian Sisters who ran The Asylum club
in Los Angeles and have now branched it across the world in a franchise
across America, Asia and Europe. Known for their combative personalities
the Voerman sisters do not get along and so now they run separate
Asylums, one in Santa Monica and the other in Hollywood. However they
are never seen in one place together, as those closest to them know that
they are one vampire with two distinct personalities sharing a single
body. [8]

**Vasantasena** - Through the Middle Ages she traveled with her sire,
Unmada, preaching against the Blood bond and denying the traditional
Kindred hierarchy and the loss of free will that followed. They
condemned the Antediluvians through the Jyhad and joined the Sabbat
during it's original formation. Her ideals were rejected by both the
Sabbat and Camarilla, leading her to eventually creating a faction of
Malkavians to embrace free from the Sabbat. [9]

**X** - Santa Monica based Kindred. He may be Annabelle's first Kindred
friend and became part of the Vamily in
<a href="LA_by_Night" class="wikilink" title="LA by Night">LA by
Night</a>. Though he may have more going on than meets the eye as he
works under the Baron of Santa Monica, Therese Voerman.

**Leysha** - Resides in <a href="Boston,_Massachusetts" class="wikilink"
title="Boston, Massachusetts">Boston, Massachusetts</a> with powerful
precognitive and investigative abilities utilized by the Boston Court.
Much of her past is unknown other than her being from Lyon, France and
saved by her sire. Due to her gifts and importance, she experienced a
more secluded unlife until the events of
<a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Swansong" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Swansong">Vampire: The Masquerade
Swansong</a>.[10]

**Juliet Parr -** Current Malkavian Justicar, hailing from London as
former Sheriff of North
<a href="London,_UK" class="wikilink" title="London">London</a>. She has
the power to investigate and apprehend enemies of the Tower. She uses
her skill in interrogation and near obsessive fixation on details to her
advantage. She attempts to aid
<a href="Queen_Anne" class="wikilink" title="Queen Anne">Queen Anne</a>
in stabilizing London, her fate is uncertain.[11]

**<a href="Fabien" class="wikilink" title="Fabien">Fabien</a>** -
Malkavian detective who works on behalf of the Sheriff of Seattle and
Seattle Police Department since the 1920s. Consistently operates as a
noir detective. Currently trapped in
<a href="Phyre" class="wikilink" title="Phyre&#39;s">Phyre's</a>
head.[12]

**<a href="Gideon_Hall" class="wikilink" title="Gideon Hall">Gideon
Hall</a>** - Sire of Fabien and high standing member of the Seattle
Court in the 1920s. When Gideon realized Fabien got too close to
uncovering Kindred society, decided to Embrace him.[13]

**<a href="Harold_Beaulieu" class="wikilink"
title="Harold Beaulieu">Harold Beaulieu</a>**

## Culture

### Embrace

Malkavian Embraces are diverse in age, gender, ethnicity, nationality,
the only thing that matters is what inner trait the would-be sire sees
in a prospective childe. Some look for people with the ability to see
the unseen and pierce the veil. Seeing the dearly departed or divining
the future. Many Malkavians also embrace childers with insight, humans
who ask deep questions, have high empathy and emotional intelligence, or
an intense want to understand the truth. The last group are the more
stereotypical ones, the ones that have survived harrowing experiences or
the ones constantly dissociating from reality. All these are candidates
for a Malkavian embrace. Coincidentally, these traits have brought in
many spiritualists, psychologists, detectives, “broken” individuals, and
many more depending on what a Malkavian sire wants to see.[14]

### In Human Society

In human society many Malkavians are attracted to similar personality
types that make a good childe. They flock to people society considers
broken or disturbed, or seek to learn from deep philosophical kine. Cult
leaders, hospital board members, clinic owners, etc. are possible
positions a Malkavian takes to be near their favored Kine. Some herds
and retainers of often forgotten communities become obsessive of their
Malkavian masters for the attention given.[15]

### In Kindred Society

The Malkavians are cursed and their minds are burned with seeing too
many truths, feeling emotions to such a strong degree, or the Blood
activating age-old mental wounds. However the Malkavian bane manifest,
they have a negative reputation of being a clan cursed with madness.
Though some consider their madness may be like the stories told in times
of old of seers and prophets with some truth hidden behind their
ramblings.[16]

The Malks are said to have flashes of great insight along with fits of
delusion. Many Kindred keep a wide breadth away from them for this
reason though some find it a chance to learn unseeable truths. The clan
has been known to make discoveries of Vitae and blood. Experiments on
their own clan lead to discoveries of mystical properties conferred to
Kindred by resonances of the blood. This discovery still frustrates the
<a href="Tremere" class="wikilink" title="Tremere">Tremere</a>.
<a href="Nosferatu" class="wikilink" title="Nosferatu">Nosferatu</a>
sometimes act as shepherd for Malkavians being two groups often looked
down on in the Kindred world.[17] For this reason coteries are often
seen as a chance to interact and break out of their social struggles due
to their stigma. Some may take center stage in coteries for
acknowledgement of their coteriemates, others may find such amounts of
interaction demanding and overstimulating. How the coterie reacts to a
Malkavian in their ranks has been stories of both hope and caution for
fledgling Oracles.[18]

It is said the Children of Malkav are all connected to one another in
what is called the
<a href="Loresheets#Chicago_by_Night_Loresheets" class="wikilink"
title="Cobweb">Cobweb</a> or Madness Network. They are never really
alone as their minds are psychically connected to each other’s mind. To
some it may be hardly noticeable, but for others it is like having a
second mind running in the background of their mind. Most can ignore it
save for those few times a year that a pulse resonates through their
collective. Some Oracles can have limited control of the Cobweb and some
can even conduct the signature event, the Call. The Call is when the
Oracles gather, directed by the Cobweb giving vague visions and ideas of
meeting up. Some say this is the remaining form of Malkav always
presence in his descendants mind.[19][20]

### Faction Differences

The Children of Malkav thrive in the Camarilla supposedly with a sense
of structure that aids their minds. This allows many Malkavians who make
social faux pas to have some room for grace if they are beneficial to
the sect. They can rise to seneschals and in some cases Princes.[21]

The Malkavians of the Anarchs are called the *Unchained* as they are
rumored to be more disconnected from the clan and Cobweb. Many Malks see
this as dangerous for the Unchained’s mind. Many suppose the Blood
resists the Anarch Movement giving many Malkavians a reluctance to join.
The reason is unknown, though this apparently happened with the Sabbat
ages ago before a shift in favor of the Camarilla. Anarch Malkavians go
off bravely where their clan fears to tread.

## Exclusive Loresheets

Malkavian characters have special access to the following loresheets:

• <a href="Loresheets#Descendant_of_Vasantasena" class="wikilink"
title="Descendant of Vasantasena">Descendant of Vasantasena</a>

•
<a href="Loresheets#The_Cobweb" class="wikilink" title="The Cobweb">The
Cobweb</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#Malkavian_Family" class="wikilink"
title="Malkavian Family">Malkavian Family</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#Starfall_Ranch" class="wikilink"
title="Starfall Ranch">Starfall Ranch</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#Descendant_of_the_Ankou" class="wikilink"
title="Descendant of the Ankou">Descendant of the Ankou</a>

## Gallery

<File:Voerman> Sisters character.png|Voerman Sisters <File:Vasantasena>
character.png|Vasantasena <File:Leysha> character.png|Leysha
<File:Harold> Beaulieu.PNG|<a href="Harold_Beaulieu" class="wikilink"
title="Harold Beaulieu">Harold Beaulieu</a> <File:Gideon> VA
BL2.png|<a href="Gideon_Hall" class="wikilink" title="Gideon Hall">Gideon
Hall</a> <File:Fabien> and Phyre
BL2.png|<a href="Fabien" class="wikilink" title="Fabien">Fabien</a>

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 75-76

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 161-163

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 79

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 79

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 57

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 210

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 394

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 399

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Boston_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Boston by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Boston by Night</a>, Page 76

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Fall_of_London" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Fall of London">Vampire: The Masquerade
Fall of London</a>, pages 186 & 229

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Bloodlines_2" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Bloodlines 2">Vampire: The Masquerade
Bloodlines 2</a>

[13]

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 76

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 146-147

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 75

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 145

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 34-35

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 75-76

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 270

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 145
