\_\_TOC\_\_ **The Ministry** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of
Vampire: The Masquerade. The Ministry always has something to offer.
This often cult-like clan recruits those able to employ temptation as a
weapon. They
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a> those
with the will and means to sway, entrap, and ultimately liberate their
targets from whatever they seek: the victim’s possessions, allegiance,
or even faith. To the Serpents, everything has a price.[1]

The clan was formerly known as the Followers of Set. For as much as a
cult as they are a clan, the majority of their members adhere to a
disruptive system of beliefs. They are known as as a group of the
devious type, tricksters, tempters and liars. Due to this their
relationships in the modern age and in the past are rocky at best, given
their tendencies to play all sides during major conflicts. Their entry
into the
[Camarilla](./camarilla.md) was
rejected, leaving most to side up with the
[Anarchs](./anarch.md).

With the creed not forced upon their childer, that does not stop their
lineage from influencing them and enticing them to gravitate towards the
propensity for subterfuge and attraction.

Many of the clan keep vast libraries, making a nightly hunt to gather
ancient documents or artifacts to study and bring to the cult. While
others take a less direct route to liberate subjects on a more personal
level rather than religious. Time is no matter to them, as often they'll
wait months in order to properly sink their claws into their target with
all the right forbidden vices.[2]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Ministers as well as the uses they
find in it. [3]

- **Protean** allows the minister to change their body's form, be it to
  extend their fangs or turn into an animal. They often take the form of
  a snake over a wolf.
- **Obfuscate** is the reason Ministers are able to melt into shadows or
  vanish from plain sight. They use this power to discover the beliefs,
  creeds or other information of those around them to then later
  weaponize it against them.
- **Presence** when used by the Ministers is a powerful tool to both
  attract and repel their victims. Used in both swaying a large
  congregation towards their whim or finding a lone person in need of
  some help.

## Bane

<section begin=bane/>

**Abhors the Light** - When a Minister is exposed to direct
illumination, be it naturally caused or artificial, they receive a
penalty equal to their Bane Severity to all dice pools while subject to
the light. They also add their Bane Severity to Aggravated
[damage](./health.md) taken from
sunlight.

<section end=bane/>

[4]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Cold-Blooded** - They can only use
[Blush of Life](./blush_of_life.md) if they have recently fed from a living vessel in the same
scene or up to roughly an hour ago, Storytellers discretion. When they
do so, it requires a number of Rouse Checks equal to their Bane Severity
rather than just one.

<section end="altbane" />

[5]

## Compulsion

<section begin=compulsion/>

**Transgression** - The Minister suffers a burning desire to influence
those around them to shatter the chains of their own making. They suffer
a two-dice penalty to all dice pools that do not relate to enticing
someone or themselves to break a Chronicle or personal Conviction. The
Compulsion ends once the Minister causes someone, or themselves, at
least one stain.

<section end=compulsion/>

[6]

## Example archetypes

- **Fraudster** - Their life of crime hasn't escaped them, their face is
  known to others to be one who will rip you off. Yet, each time they
  seek something they manage to slip it right from beneath their victims
  nose.
- **Conniving Archeologist** - Archaeology is a field filled with money
  and to the Minister, breaking the will of collectors and conning
  museums is nothing but a passion project.
- **Local Occultist** - To the mortal eye, they run a small occult shop
  filled with crystals and other trinkets. But behind closed doors much
  more sinister things occur.
- **The Mouthpiece** - They believe they have heard Set or maybe it was
  something else, still they think of themselves like a prophet. Brought
  to this world to spread the good word and shed the shackles others
  cast on themselves.

## Notable characters

**Hesha Ruhadze** - Rather than waste his focus on politics, Hesha
dedicates his time to history and mysterious origins of vampires as well
as their fates. He still sits in during the Anarch meets and listens
attentively, however. He believes himself a servant of the Blood and
through that can understand the voice of Sutekh from calling his vitae.
Because of his standing within Kindred society he is not marked as
insane, instead it lends credence to his claims. [7]

**Marcel** -  A war profiteering drug trafficker and gun runner in his
mortal life for Algerian Independence, he almost died when the French
secret service discovered his operations. His future sire was able to
turn him and connect him to the heroin trade, based in Haiti, where he
flourished. Then embraced, and left the Caribbean for
[Chicago](./chicago_ill.md),
noting the power vacuum after Lodin’s death. There he operated and gave
support to the Camarilla with his gambit paying off. While not an
official member of the Primogen he has worked his way as a sort of
advisor and ambassador that many outsiders approach if they need access
to court. Under the façade, he is playing the long game until his
ambitions can be met, where the Prince Jackson or the Primogen will own
him a large boon. Some Orthodox Setites see him as a heretic that needs
to go.[8][9]

**Reverend Twosret** - Her full name is Sarah P. Donnadieu, and she is
an orthodox Setite operating inside of Chicago. Originally a southern
preacher she was embraced into the clan when it was still inherently
linked to the worship of set. When the schism happened she balked at the
thought of heretical Ministers and their reinterpretations of Set
teachings. Thought to be fanatical even my her own clan standards she
goes domain to domain to correct the heresy. She eyes Marcel as a fit
for assassination as a message to other Ministers. She is currently
indoctrinating and manipulating a young Nosferatu to this end.[10][11]

## Culture

### Embrace

The clan is drawn to those who know their way around human desires and
lies. Those who understand corruption, who understand how to handle
scams or how to erode those of blinded belief. Criminals, con artists
and self-help gurus are often among their ranks. As well as skeptics or
straight deniers of gods are taken into their ranks: hardline atheists,
iconoclasts, history professors, philosophers, and any other seekers of
truth. However, the Ministry does not seek to corrupt their potential
childer, instead looking for those who already have a grasp on how to do
so onto others.

### Mortal society

The kindred of the clan often mingle with human society masquerading
among the ranks. The Ministers may play their hand at posing as drug
lords, club owners, and even pimps. Some might even go for loftier
positions that may require more attention to their mask: counselors,
movie executives, and therapists. A telltale sign of many Ministers is
the following they manage to garner, be it gang, cult, or informal
poses, the lost are drawn to the Serpents. They don’t work with
mountains of red tape and the confines of some bureaucracy, but prefer
their herds and retainers to be bound to them by personal emotional
dependence be it fear, desperation, or need.

Many Serpents don’t see their herds or hunted vessels as family like
some may or violently take their blood in the darkened alleyway. They
typically look down on such heavy handed ways, thinking themselves
better for being above such methods. Their herds tend to be
congregations and their vessels usually hold out their wrists willingly,
and may even come to love the feeling of their blood being taken. Many
vessels come to depend on the vampire as the Serpents are the only ones
to understand their mortal vice. [12]

### Kindred society

Refused entry into the Camarilla 500 years ago. Now with the Gehenna
War, [Sabbat](./sabbat.md) packs,
and Beckoning in the Middle East, the Ministry decided it may be time to
find allies. In recent nights talks of the Ministry joining the
Camarilla were underway. An ornate meeting in Paris, France where the
Camarilla were gifted objects and Ventrue portfolios invested in by the
Ministry; the meeting ended with it being firebombed. The Camarilla went
silent and instead inducted their mortal enemies, the
[Banu Haqim](./banu.md).
Suspect to be meddling by either the Banu Haqim, the
[Toreadors](./toreador.md),
[Second inquisition](./second_inquisition.md), a Camarilla set up,
or simply lone mortals actors with bad timing, this pushed many Minister
who were outside the Church of Set to go Anarch. There is a going theory
the Church of Set itself did this or even the Ministry did to get into
the Anarchs easier. No one knows which theory is correct.[13]

The Ministers are often disliked for their reputations in Kindred
domains as deceivers, liars, and corrupters. Even with such a
reputation, they still get Kindred to enter dealings with them in two
ways. The first way is many of them taking to smuggling; be it drugs,
vessels, or any other thing of seedy origins. The other purpose many
serve is being spiritually minded, mingling with the seedier parts of
the city and sinners so others don’t have to. Their excuse of being
martyrs usually is enough to divert Kindred suspicions as long as they
stay useful.

Internally, the clan is organized around "temples" with the larger
cities holding multiple shrines. It is rare that these places are
directly seen as places of worship, and instead are usually areas for
privacy, discretion and convenience. Either before the embrace or after,
new clan recruits are brought into the folds of the cult of Set.

To some in the Ministry, the clan and their secret belief are joined
even if their faith takes many different forms. Usually their faith
encompasses a subtle alternative to or outright heresy against the
other's belief system with its purpose to erode whatever faith remains.
This is called liberating to the Followers of Set, as they free their
believer from their former chains. However, this does not mean that all
members of the clan are followers of Set, many cast aside these shackles
to never return or are simply never taught by their sire. Those that are
not members are not usually reached out to in order to re-recruit them
and other members allow them to do as they please. However, should one
cross them by revealing their secrets, they punishment is harsh and yet
quite creative.

Though some walk away from the spiritual side, many of these Ministers
may still find themselves drawn to the Blood's hunger for subterfuge and
attraction in Kindred and mortal society. A reason for this may be the
clan’s belief in hearing the voice of their progenitor, Set or Sutekh,
in their very veins. Some try to discern the will by meditating. Those
who can pull off convincing others feel their Blood singing to them gain
respect in the clan and maybe even become high priest. Proof isn’t a
matter of reality, but of those who can make such claims and go
unchallenged.

It should be noted some religious Ministers are not part of the Church
of Set. Instead they love to bend and twist religious doctrine to their
agenda, even that of the orthodox Setites. This may even appear to put
them at odds or at war with the Church of Set, each side spreading lies
or abuse just for the other to offer shelter and respite. There may also
be two sides of the clan in a scheme of grand manipulation or endless
cycle of abuse.[14]

The clan as a whole is known as enablers and promoters, while they try
to mingle with sinners to break their chains, they more often than not
drag them down. Many ministers lie to themselves, assuming they are in
control of their indulgences and above the sin they sell to others.[15]

In coteries, both Setites and Ministers often strive to be confidants
and trusted allies to their coterie mates. They believe they can provide
anything to their coterie aiming to ensure the groups needs are met.
Though they always have a small morally ambiguous bend to fulfilling
needs. There is also an expectation of payback in some form. Help with
their flock or connections to the local community are popular wants of
some Serpents. Many coteriemates notices this face, some maintain
connections for their ability to get stuff even with questionable
ulterior motives. Others are more wary of the Tempters' out of fear of
their machinations. Funny enough many Ministers are often upfront with
their intentions to try to avoid this, and keep Kindred customers coming
back for their services of course.[16]

#### Orthodox Setites

> *Main Article:
> [Church of > Set](./church_set.md)*

{{#lst:Church of Set|summary}}

### Factional differences

Many Ministers are critical of their Orthodox Setites clan mates,
especially the Egyptian styled ones to be outdated and stuck in the
past. Stuck in actual temples and associated with mummies feels very
much like they aren’t able to keep up with the times. Outsiders are
unsure if the divide is a rebrand or a schism. Those of the Ministry
have largely gone Anarch though some deal with the Camarilla and
[Ashirra](./camarilla.md#the-ashirra). They have various branches in belief and
non belief, even going so far as taking roles of factional leadership
leadership. Anarchs have noted the Ministers have allowed to spread in
places they never dreamed of in the past.[17]

The Setites in the Church of Set could be described as Autarkis, they
are much more distant from the sects and factions. They regard the
Ministry as frivolous, incorrigible children. This is amplified when the
Setites observe the Ministers’ stunts that threaten the Masquerade,
which the Church often covers. The Setites have even been known to
cooperate with the Camarilla to suppress bothersome Ministers.

The more confusing aspect of this schism is the possibility of it all
being manufactured and truly a rebranding. Ministers are just the
front-facing politically active façade of the clan, while the Church can
pursue its goals in the dark avoiding out of clan scrutiny. If true,
then the clan is playing the Anarchs with their overnight reformation
ploy, but if this true the Ministers are larger in number and have
political power to overwrite traditions of the old Church.[18][19]

Among all the smoke and mirrors of the fractured clan, a regular line of
communication runs between the rest of the clan and the Egyptian core
bases, where the Hierophants and clan members have always held
power.[20]

## Exclusive Loresheets

Ministry characters have special access to the following loresheets:

• [Hesha Ruhadze](./loresheets.md#hesha-ruhadze)

## Gallery

<File:Hesha> Ruhadze character.png|Hesha Ruhadze
<File:Keminitri.PNG%7CKeminitri> <File:Marcel.PNG%7CMarcel> <File:Thea>
Noel-MacCrain.PNG|Thea Noel-MacCrain <File:Aluc> Romas de Leon.PNG|Aluc
Romas de Leon <File:Keisha> Phelps.PNG|Keisha Phelps <File:Coach> Tyrone
Soros.PNG|"Coach" Tyrone Soros

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 176-181

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 184

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 184

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 58

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 185

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 192

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 149-151

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, page 73

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, page 79

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, page 134

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: the Masquerade
Camarilla</a> page 181-182

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 80

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 68-69

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 181-183

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 36

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 180-181

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 73

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, pages 69-70

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 81
