\_\_TOC\_\_

**Nosferatu** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of Vampire: The
Masquerade. The Nosferatu wear their curse on the outside. Their bodies
horribly twisted and deformed through the Embrace, they lurk on the
fringes of most cities, acting as spies and brokers of information.
Using animals and their own supernatural capacity to hide, nothing
escapes the eyes of the so-called Sewer Rats.[1]

Their <a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a> is
one of the most painful, twisting and deforming their body into
something else forever to be stuck as a monster. The entire
transformation process can take weeks and result in deformities similar
to birth defects, growths, severe injuries, or, sores; leaving the
unlucky as hideous monsters or normal looking humans with conditions.
Regardless of their monstrous appearance, they are often some of the
most compassionate kindred from wearing their curse on the outside
rather than inside. To blend in some will use their abilities within
<a href="Obfuscate" class="wikilink" title="Obfuscate">Obfuscate</a> or
heavy make-up and prosthetics. Some believe that when trouble is about
to come knocking, it's best to slink down into the underground and
sewers to avoid detection. Sending others to report into the tower
rather than face the
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
themselves and be caught out by the hunters storming or being faced by
their beautiful counterparts.

The <a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a> have noted that this
clan lingers around social outcasts, building rapport with them and
earning their compassion in trade to better hide from the hunters. The
Nosferatu have taken to communicating via codes and dead languages
through several sources to not be tracked after the fall of their
ARPANET station, SchreckNET. [2]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Nosferatu as well as the uses they
find in it. [3]

- **Animalism** serves a purpose as a way to increase the Nosferatu's
  reach with spying, as well as sending swarms to attack their
  opponents. It also assists the Sewer Rats with feeding as it's easier
  and arguably more ethical to summon and drain an animal than stalk a
  mortal to feed from.
- **Obfuscate** has mixed opinions in the clan as some are proud of
  their ghastly appearance. Regardless of the controversy, it is an
  exceptional tool when feeding.
- **Potence** is a valuable tool in rapidly neutralizing foes in their
  path. Being able to hit and run a vessel for blood or incapacitate a
  pursuing enemy as they flee. Many Scabs will think twice before using
  it in front of mortals as it may expose their deceptions.

## Bane

<section begin=bane/>

**Repulsiveness** - Cursed by their blood, when they are Embraced they
are twisted into revolting monsters. They can never raise their rating
in the <a href="Merits_and_Flaws#Looks" class="wikilink"
title="Looks merits">Looks merits</a> and instead must take the (••)
**Repulsive** flaw. Any attempt to disguise themselves incurs a penalty
equal to the character's Bane Severity, this also includes the use of
Disciplines such as
<a href="Obfuscate#Mask_of_a_Thousand_Faces" class="wikilink"
title="Mask of a Thousand Faces">Mask of a Thousand Faces</a>. However,
most Nosferatu do not breach the
<a href="Masquerade" class="wikilink" title="Masquerade">Masquerade</a>
by being seen, they are instead perceived as gross or terrifying.

<section end=bane/>

[4]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Infestation** - The Haven of a Nosferatu is always infested with
vermin, any attempt to do something that requires concentration takes a
two plus Bane Severity penalty, as well as the same penalty to social
tests at ST discretion. Additionally, when a Nosferatu spends a scene at
an enclosed location, the vermin appears and causes the same penalty
though reduced to equal only the Bane Severity. Any attempt to control
these vermin with Animalism is done at a penalty equal to Bane Severity.

<section end="altbane" />

[5]

## Compulsion

<section begin=compulsion/>

**Cryptophilia** - Consumed by a hunger for private secrets, the
Nosferatu seeks to obtain knowledge no matter big or small as long as
it's not a well-known bit of information. During this, they also refuse
to give up their secrets except in strict trade for something greater
than their own. Any action not actively working towards gaining them a
secret they take a two-dice penalty. This Compulsion does not end till
they learn a secret they deem to be useful, sharing this secret is
entirely optional.

<section end=compulsion/>

[6]

## Example archetypes

- **Private Investigator** - While their looks won't bring anyone to the
  door, their ability to gather information has turned more than one
  head. In life, they might have once been a gumshoe and now continue
  their profession from the shadows.
- **Underground Dweller** - Once they lost everything in life they went
  underground, living with the rats in the dust and debris left behind.
  Here they've made their home, only surfacing when required and
  otherwise plotting their schemes from the safety of the warrens.
- **Cleopatra** - Once upon a time they were a rising star or one
  snuffed out too early. Beautiful beyond compare and that invoked the
  rage of someone without, embracing them to strip everything from them.
  Now they walk the city with a face that no one could love like they
  once did.
- **Tech Specialist** - Their unappealing presence might deter some, but
  others know that if you ever need a phone cracked or a server hacked,
  they are the person to reach out to.

## Notable characters

**Zelios** - A great architect, mason and master planner of the clan, he
disappeared beneath New York in the 90's. Left behind were only his
libraries, plans and treatises regarding the power location and sacred
geometry.[7]

**Ambrus Maropis** - His reputation as a trend-setter and Masquerade
protector is well-known in Kindred society. With a reputation of being
on the cutting edge of technology and culture, the
<a href="Toreador" class="wikilink" title="Toreador">Toreador</a> that
know he's a Nosferatu loathe him. His persona allows him to sell
software he hacks into including the information, advise on security
methods stolen from governments or corporations or simply talk about
upcoming trends in Elysia.[8]

**Nathaniel Bordruff** - A former vampire hunter turned Nosferatu who
harbored his hatred for kindred society throughout the centuries. He
served high profile kindred in Chicago gaining influence, while secretly
subverting attempts to confound the
<a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a>. His end goal is death
to all kindred society.[9]

**Wauneka** - A Vietnam veteran turned information broker, Wauneka has a
reputation for protecting the vulnerable in the urban centers of
Chicago. While not as technologically savvy as other Nosferatu his old
school spy skills prove effective in Chicago especially with his street
family acting as his eyes and ears.[10]

**<a href="Jasper_Heartwood" class="wikilink"
title="Jasper Heartwood">Jasper Heartwood</a>** - An reserved Kindred
with talents in stealth and physical prowess, he had lost much
transition from kine to Kindred. Formerly a recluse in the LA area as
the story unfolds in
<a href="LA_by_Night" class="wikilink" title="LA by Night">LA by
Night</a> where he is shown to be a major asset to his coterie having a
humane side and plenty of dark secrets.

**Khalid Al-Rashid** - A well-respected
<a href="Chicago,_Illinois" class="wikilink" title="Chicago">Chicago</a>
primogen and master swordsman. An elder of the clan who had long
searched for a way to win the battle with his Beast, but he never quite
reach Golconda. Even when Chicago was dominated by Menele’s and Helena’s
war, he proved stealthy enough to avoid falling under eithers sway. He
may have found a deep secret, but has long since disappeared or may have
met final death. His disappearance is not widely known as a younger
clanmate impersonates him to keep the Clan stable in Chicago.[11] [12]

**Belinde Buch** - The Prince of Copenhagen. She has ruled Copenhagen
since the 17th century, a rare Nosferatu prince. She wishes her domain
was seen as a prominent Camarilla stronghold as the others were. She
looks pretty for a Nosferatu except her face is like plastic and she
cannot move her face akin to an uncanny doll. She is a
<a href="Cleopatrans" class="wikilink" title="Cleopatran">Cleopatran</a>
and consorts with Toreadors, even actively persecuting her own clan if
they do not conform to Cleopatra ideas. She is growing bored with her
success longing to be a Justicar or member of the Inner Circle. The more
listless she is, the crueler her rule.[13]

## Culture

### Embrace

The Nosferatu embrace many different steps of life, typically ones they
find of use. The clan has a diversity of needs in these nights. In the
new day and age of technology and the disaster of SchreckNET, many sires
have opted to Embrace from tech crowd and physical archivists. Keeping
information secure and getting it to other Kindred have become paramount
in this time offering dangerous, but lucrative opportunities. Other sire
may look for the Nosferatu with an inquisitive mind; law enforcement,
academics, sleuths, or anyone who are good at unraveling complex
puzzles. On the flip side many forget Nosferatu have potence, criminals,
survivalists make decent embraces and uses of such facts working as
enforcers.[14]

The Embrace into the clan is like no other, their transformation isn’t
done in one instance, but slowly over time. A young fledgling may be
subjected to the horror of their flesh slowly breaking out in pussing
pox, their bones twisting, or tissue lumping in to growths. At the end
of their transformation they take on some physical manifestation of
their curse. Some Nosferatu look humans albeit with a condition, but
some truly unlucky kindred look downright monstrous.[15]

### Mortal society

Due to their curse, it is hard for Nosferatu to mingle with mortals.
However, they usually find ways to blend in with humans outcasts and
humans with medical conditions. Some have more severe manifestations of
the curse, so they take to using Obfuscate, or using physical masks to
help blend. The other option is to always hunt prey from the shadows.
Given their circumstances, the Nosferatu are least likely to still
contact humans in their old life.[16]  

With all these obstacles, Nosferatu still like to keep company as do
other Kindred. Some Nosferatu take advantage of the outcast's sympathy
for them, some even going as far as to convince mortals that they are
the only one who will care for and look out for them. They may also
convince mortals of this as they steal blood from their exploited
victim’s neck.[17] Whether it is unhealthy codependency or pure
subterfuge, it is effective. Many Nosferatu use this influence over
their outcasts to have decent messengers, blood bags, and street
spies.[18]

### Kindred society

The Nosferatu are known as clan of secrets, subterfuge and spies. Many
Elysia have Nosferatu appearing either wearing their curse with
grotesque pride or appear in beautiful masks.[19]  They were the
original architects of SchreckNET, a former online hub for Kindred to
post information and such. When members of the Second Inquisition
compromised the servers, this caused a crisis among Kindred. Even if
they saved secrets of their own clan, their credibility was called into
question and as their clan members died  The Nosferatu bunkered down and
began to plot. As the Camarilla and the Anarchs started to drift,
Nosferatu made a secret pact with the
<a href="Brujah" class="wikilink" title="Brujah">Brujah</a> to leave the
Camarilla as well. They lied, selling out the Brujah instead to secure
their place in the Camarilla.

The Nosferatu now have a stigma of backstabbing behavior with a new clan
and faction as an enemy, but they still benefitted.[20]   With the loss
of the <a href="Gangrel" class="wikilink" title="Gangrel">Gangrel</a>
and <a href="Brujah" class="wikilink" title="Brujah">Brujah</a>, the
Camarilla had to turn to the Nosferatu for their strength. Enforcers,
hunters, and spies all fit perfectly for a Sewer Rat trying to advance
these nights. They plan to continue their stance of bunkering down and
rebuilding.[21]  

Even with such a paranoid stance the Nosferatu still take coteries
seriously. Once proven trustworthy, they may see a coterie as a family
unit of sorts. Many have a habit of compartmentalizing their social
circles. Coteries offer a chance for Nosferatu to see other parts of the
world that they thought blocked off: Nightclubs, walking under the
stars, museums, etc. This helps with the alienation many Nosferatu can
feel with those outside the clan. Some coteries may need to work on
getting to such a point, overcoming the Orlok's trust issues and the
coteries personal prejudices.[22]

#### Cleopatras

> *Main Article: <a href="Cleopatrans" class="wikilink"
> title="Cleopatrans">Cleopatrans</a>*

{{#lst:Cleopatrans|summary}}

Despite this cults existence, some Nosferatu and still called Cleopatras
whether they are members or not. Some Nosferatu may display some of the
cult's personality as well without being members.

### Factional differences

The clan has done much to throw in with the Camarilla. The Betrayal of
the Brujah is a big indicator of this. This is because many of the clan
thinks the Camarilla’s adherence to the Masquerade and being completely
hidden is a major benefit to the clan. Though the Nosferatu come
together when faced with an external threat the political divide is
grating.

Anarch Nosferatu are called *Red* Nosferatu, and what the Camarilla
Lepers mockingly call their clanmates for their “mini revolution”. The
Nosferatu who become Red Nosferatu do so from being tired of being at
the bottom and hiding in the shadows of a sect. This leads to some
Nosferatu who more flagrant with the Masquerade at times. The worst
part, the Red Nosferatu may have started taking leadership roles in the
Anarch Movement. Camarilla Nosferatu try to undermine these efforts,
seeing the reckless breachers and standout leaders as dangerous in these
times when the clan should focus hunker down in the shadows.[23]

## Exclusive Loresheets

Nosferatu characters have special access to the following loresheets:

• <a href="Loresheets#Descendant_of_Zelios" class="wikilink"
title="Descendant of Zelios">Descendant of Zelios</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#Cleopatras" class="wikilink"
title="Cleopatras">Cleopatras</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#London_under_London" class="wikilink"
title="London under London">London under London</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#The_Nictuku" class="wikilink"
title="The Nictuku">The Nictuku</a>

## Gallery

<File:Zelios> character.png|Zelios <File:Ambrus> Maropis
character.png|Ambrus Maropis <File:Nathaniel> Bordruff
character.png|Nathaniel Bordruff <File:Wauneka> character.png|Wauneka
<File:Khalid> Al-Rashid character.png|Khalid Al-Rashid <File:Belinde>
buch.jpg|Belinde Buch

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 81-84

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 84-85

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 85

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 58

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 210

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 398

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 402

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 164-167

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 160-162

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, pages 157-159

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, page 162

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Children_of_the_Blood" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Children of the Blood">Vampire: The
Masquerade Children of the Blood</a>, page 69-71

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 84

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 81

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 153-154

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 154

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 82

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 152

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 154

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 152

[22] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 36-37

[23] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, pages 164-165
