\_\_TOC\_\_ **Ravnos** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of Vampire:
The Masquerade. Masters of misdirection, the Ravnos prefer not to fight
or bleed for something they can obtain through subtler means. They can
charm and vanish within the same mortal breath, and those once fooled
quickly learn to question their very senses when in the company of
Ravens. Always on the move, the Ravnos can never rest in the same place
for long lest their curse light them on fire as they slumber.[1]

They were almost annihilated during the beginning act of the Gehenna War
during the Week of Nightmares but with time is now growing stronger once
more.[2] They may be known as wandering Kindred, those utilized to bring
messages or as those who wish to do nothing else but mess with the minds
of others. Generally they move across the lands, rarely settling down in
attempt to remain one step ahead of the judgement that runs through
their veins. Their methods are not usually those of brute force, gaining
adoring fans or overdrawn plans that take centuries to complete. Instead
most Ravnos rely on their wits, clever charm and illusions. They prefer
not to bleed when able, using more subtle methods to obtain whatever it
is they desire. For this reason it is rare they make their true nature
known and once they have, they disappear into the night as quickly as
they appeared.

In order to combat this curse, those that do remain within certain
regions do well to set up multiple havens and don multiple masks. No
clan is as skilled as the Haunted when it comes to blending into
society, be it mortal or Kindred. Due to the mistrust they may face,
some display themselves as
<a href="Caitiff" class="wikilink" title="Caitiff">Caitiff</a> in order
to find a place within Kindred society, but those who do not and show
their true colors often take an
<a href="Autarkis" class="wikilink" title="Autarkis">Autarkis</a>
standpoint and sell their services to others. Maintaining this, however,
is difficult and most eventually pack up and leave either due to a
collection of enemies or the doomed blood burning them as they rest. [3]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Ravnos as well as the uses they find
in it. [4]

- **Animalism** is the reason most Ravnos maintain a good relationship
  with animals, employing them as spies, distractions or just as company
  while on the road.
- **Obfuscate** allows the Daredevil to disappear from sight when things
  aren't working out, but it also allows them to create and manipulate
  their hallucinations. Combined with Presence, this allows the Ravnos
  to utilize this power at it's limit.
- **Presence** is saved for when natural charm just doesn't cut it. They
  may frequent use of this power in order to find victims in a pinch.

## Bane

<section begin="bane" />

**Doomed** - Anytime they daysleep within the same place more than once
in seven nights, roll a number of dice equal to their Bane Severity. If
they receive any 10's they then take 1 Aggravated
<a href="Health" class="wikilink" title="damage">damage</a> for each as
they are scorched from within. What constitutes as the same place is
defined by the chronicle, but generally will need a mile distance
between the two resting places before the bane is triggered. Mobile
havens do work as long as the haven is moved a mile away. Due to this,
the Ravnos may not take the
<a href="Merits_and_Flaws#No_Haven" class="wikilink"
title="No Haven Flaw">No Haven Flaw</a>.

<section end="bane" />

[5]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Unbirth Name** - If a Ravnos’ unbirth name is used against them, the
name-wielding opponent receives a bonus equal to the Ravnos’ Bane
Severity to resist their Discipline powers. Additionally, the Ravnos
affected receives the same penalty to resist supernatural powers used by
the opponent.

<section end="altbane" />

[6]

## Compulsion

<section begin="compulsion" />

**Tempting Fate** - When faced with their next problem, the Daredevil
must attempt the solution with the most dangerous or daring of actions,
anything less incurs a two-dice penalty. Context appropriate flashy or
risky attempts may even net bonus dice. They are free to convince others
to follow them in their actions but may as well go it alone. This
Compulsion persists until the problem is solved or further attempts
become impossible to accomplish.

<section end="compulsion" />

[7]

## Example archetypes

- **Devilish Rogue** - With a personality so admirable no one would
  think of them to be a thief, yet when things strike them just right
  it's easier to steal incriminating evidence than sway someone to hand
  it over.
- **Traveling Blogger** - Maybe blogs haven't been as big as they once
  were, but they still make a profit and avoid the firery burn from
  their lineage by documenting the travels they undertake. It's a safe
  way to spend eternity as long as they maintain their charade that is.
- **Hitman** - A rare breed within the Ravnos given the requirements of
  being a professional hitman. Still, they perform their mission as
  needed and upon payment they disappear until summoned again.
- **Artifact Collector** - With traveling comes experience and exposure
  to different bits of information. Through this the Raven has managed
  to learn where someone just might find that missing rare artifact and
  for the right price, they might even sell it to you.

## Notable characters

**Zapathasura** - The Ravnos Antediluvian who had awaken during an
opening Gehenna War event called the Week of Nightmares. During his
waking he was able to drain Vitae from his clan from afar driving many
of them into a frenzy of cannibalism and destruction, effectively
decimating his own clan. He met his end in Bangladesh to various parties
under the noonday say. The death of him via sunlight has forever altered
the clan with fire in their veins.[8][9]

**Shejana** - A survivor from WWII stripped of her mortal family,
eventually her sire liberated and Embraced her. She used her power of
illusions to punish mortal hate groups and tyrannical Princes, as well
as fulfill her escapist fantasies from the realities of a war-torn
Europe. She moved to the United States to start anew. Her indulges into
these fantasies saved her from meeting her end like many did during
Zapathasura's wake. When she finished an episode of indulgence she
realized many of her clan had disappeared. With another lost family she
took to calling her
<a href="Caitiff" class="wikilink" title="Caitiff">Caitiff</a>,
operating as a Mercenary in the Chicago area.[10][11]

**<a href="Serif" class="wikilink" title="Serif">Serif</a>** - A young
Anarch Ravnos. A street artist who chases both personal and artistic
freedom while struggling under the looming shadow of her sire. She has a
difficult and dangerous past. She is featured in
<a href="NY_by_Night" class="wikilink" title="New York by Night">New
York by Night</a>.

## Culture

### Embrace

The Ravnos are known for their misdirection and knack for illusions have
usually found an affinity in childer who gamble their lives or the lives
around them. Those who always try to succeed no matter the odds; con
artists, performers, venture capitalists, travelers, etc. There are some
Ravnos who claim a divine origin of a trickster god and embrace those
who would put their faith in such deities. Anyone willing to take some
sort of risk and put themselves out there attracts the Ravens. Many of
the Embraces are from those who have cut ties to their loved ones or are
more willing to do anything to push personal agendas. This is a reason
why many consider the Ravnos have an easier time transitioning from Kine
to Kindred, living on the edge and always moving was already a part of
their life.[12]

### Mortal society

The Raven’s vary in their relationship to kine. Some go for joining
modest groups with a hierarchy that allows for if they are discovered
they will not be captured or their victims able to do anything. A
carnival where they have a steady flow of vessels and are able to have
an in with the operators or travelers on a ship where they freely take
as the mingle with the passengers. How they see their herds varies on
the Ravnos; some see genuine care for their charges, not only paying,
but protecting their charges during trips. Other Ravens may see their
herd to be used and disposed of when their usefulness is done. Many
tales of ghost ships where it reached port with only the dead abroad. A
third take may even be to profit off their mobile existence as travel
agents, cruise line organizers, and people movers.[13]

### Kindred society

Very rare is it for a Ravnos vampire to advertise their clan, some
prefer to pose as
<a href="Caitiff" class="wikilink" title="Caitiff">Caitiff</a>. When
their true identity is revealed or even worse their agenda, many already
have a few escape plans at the ready. There are some who will advertise
what they are proudly, often taking an independent position in politics,
allowing them to operate as spies, mercenaries, couriers, and
negotiators to whichever sect pays the most. They also, like their more
subtle counterparts, often find themselves leaving domains either due to
enemies or victims. Their cause for flight isn’t just a quirk of
personality or circumstance, but their blood urges them to move or feel
the echoed fiery demise of their antediluvian. Some who want to plant
roots have found a way to circumvent this, many havens and masks to
alternate through to keep their doom at bay.

Though the Ravnos’ curse has made them both independent and mobile,
there is an attempt to rebuild clan structure. This effort at the Ravnos
revival has been difficult, but hasn’t hampered the attempts. The clan
has a secret language of marks, signs and signals to help identify each
other, set up clandestine meetings with other Ravens, and trade
information and rumors about domains. Young Ravnos have taken to
storytelling with each other telling stories of how they are offspring
of trickster gods, Anansi, Loki, Coyote, Hermes, etc, they use these
trickster gods to set up a mythological divine origin of their clan even
if their progenitor has passed some even going as far to set up coteries
around such figures.[14]

While the
<a href="Gangrel" class="wikilink" title="Gangrel">Gangrel</a>’s urge to
travel gets a pass, the Ravnos aren't given such service. The Ravens can
be found all over the world, but many Kindred see them as too much of an
unstable force in their domains. The clans look down on the Ravnos for
their mercurial personalities and unlife. This has made Ravnos wary of
trucking it along all the time, and the need for some roots. Coteries
have been a sweet spot to serve as an anchor but not weigh them down too
much. They benefit the coterie with the best places to hide, secret
collecting, and knowing threats before they have come to pass.[15]

### Factional differences

There are no difference observed between
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a> and
<a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarch">Anarch</a>. Most opt
for Autarkis operate for the highest bidder.[16]

## Gallery

<File:Shejana> character.png|Shejana

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 395

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 7-8

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 8-9

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 9

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 58

[7]

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 395

[9]

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, page 66

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_Folios" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago Folios">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago Folios</a>, pages 106-107

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 7-8

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 8

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 8-10

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 37-38

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 8
