<figure>
<img src="Sabbat_Symbol.png" title="Sabbat symbol" />
<figcaption>Sabbat symbol</figcaption>
</figure>

## Who are the Sabbat

<section begin=summary/>

The Sabbat are monstrous creatures; vampire supremacists who see
themselves above mortals and do not care for them. They are a sect that
evokes fear at its mention with their ideologies being met with
loathing. The Sword of Caine wages a war against the Antediluvians, a
Gehenna War, seeking to claim revenge for Caine and the ancient betrayal
done to him by his childer. Their goal is to destroy the Antediluvians
and subject the mortal world to a world with vampires at the top.

<section end=summary/>

[1]

In their effort to make themselves the ultimate predators they have
ironically shackled themselves to the beast. The sect deindividualized,
indoctrinated, and collectively Blood Bound each cainite in an effort to
make fanatical members of their organization. With all that said, the
Sabbat are far from a monolith. With many faces and takes on inhumane,
it is easy to run into a variety of cainites from faction. [2]

The Sabbat has shrunk in size in recent nights compared to the others.
Due to the
<a href="Lasombra" class="wikilink" title="Lasombra">Lasombra</a>
exodus, the fierce <a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a> targeting from their
breaches, the
<a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarchs">Anarchs</a> and
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
willingness to combine efforts against the Sabbat, and with high Final
Death rate due to the Gehenna War the sects find many sources of peril
in modern nights. Even then the challenge only enhances their fervor.
[3][4]

## Culture

Unlike vampires within the Camarilla or Anarchs, the Sabbat adhere to
something called the Paths of Enlightenment. Humanity is seen as a
burden and quickly shed their mortal sensibilities for paths that allow
them to be an apex predator. This transformation is paramount above all.
Their lineage, clan, and antediluvian mean nothing to them and their
goal of building a world of eternal night.[5] With the Sabbat being so
splintered in the modern nights and conflicts spread across the world
they are now decentralized. What might be common in one Black Hand
territory might be unheard of in another and, even the concepts that are
considered universal to the sect are subject to regional and individual
understanding. These concepts can be things such as ritae, Paths of
Enlightenment and even the leadership structure and titles.[6]

Clan is thought to be irrelevant to the Sword of Caine, those are the
simple names and structures left over by the Antediluvians they want to
overthrow. The culture hardly acknowledges clans even in the cases of
<a href="Nosferatu" class="wikilink" title="Nosferatu">Nosferatu</a>.
This approach has yielded them to consider their identities in this
order: vampires, Sabbat, and then their Path. This aids in suppressing
individualism in the sect and makes them alien to outside Kindred.

When they do need to disclose their clan they always use antitribu at
the end of clan names, even former Sabbat-dominant clans: Lucita is a
<a href="Lasombra" class="wikilink" title="Lasombra">Lasombra</a>
antitribu, Sascha Vykos a
<a href="Tzimisce" class="wikilink" title="Tzimisce">Tzimisce</a>
antitribu. Of course they still use enemy and rivals banes to their
advantage.[7]

When it comes to problem solving the sect solves problems, the way “a
real vampire” would. Using disciplines with ruthlessness to silence
victims and hunt down witnesses. Of course such blatant supernatural
powers attract hunters and the SI, but the Sword of Caine ignores these
side effects.

The Sect holds the Dark Father, Caine, as the progenitor and idol of all
vampires. This is where their hate and war of the antediluvians stem
from, the Sabbat’s fanatical belief the childer of Caine betrayed his
will and started the struggle of ages and elder manipulation that is
still waged millennia later. Such a struggle once born from medieval
rebellion against elders has descended into endless fighting and
constant violence, as brutality is the way of the world in their
worldview as their enemies are simply pawns of the antediluvians.

Many domains have emptied either by the SI burning the Sabbat from their
recklessness or willingly abandoning domains. The ones they do hold are
either strategic domains or warfront domains. The Sect wages the Gehenna
War as they willingly follow the Beckoning. The secret unknown to other
Sects, the Gehenna War isn’t just in the Middle East, but global.
Antediluvians and ancient Methuselah have traveled over thousands of
years, so their locations are scattered further and wider. [8]

The Sabbat sees themselves as posthuman in the most extreme way. Caine
is the conquering blood god and they are beyond mortals, deserving to
treat them as predators treat prey. They want to bring down the
Masquerade as they only view it as a trick of the antediluvians, and the
Camarilla as the blatant will of the antediluvians. They have the most
enmity with the Tower being overall suspicious and hostile of the
organization. They see the Anarchs as misguided so close to the
revelation of Caine. They seek to destroy rival cults and their
leadership for the younger kindred’s own good so they can finally see
the truth.[9]

### Goals

When getting to the core of the modern Sabbat, they are as they have
ever been, uncompromising. This has left the nuance of their agenda
shrouded to the other factions. At the core they want unbridled freedom.
They see their goal of unbridled personal freedom hampered by the
Antediluvians who they see as not only cannibalistic gods, but as the
antithesis of their beliefs. To fight gods they fear will end their
existence they see fanatical deviation as the only way. They see any
lack of total devotion as tools, collaborators, and idiots; thus the
Anarchs, Camarilla, and Autakris are seen as such.

The Sabbat has devolved in the modern nights, but they still have key
wants and goals even among their many differing paths. They see either
subjugation or destruction of their age-old enemy, the Camarilla, as
high importance. For the Anarchs, they want to bring their “estranged
siblings” the Anarchs into the fold by the sword. All in all they seek
the destruction or upheaval of any rival kindred organization, only then
can Kindred see the rightness of the Sabbat way. [10]

## Structure

The membership of the Sabbat has decreased and in turn the structure of
their hierarchy has been hollowed out partially. Remaining are a few
high-ranking titles with no middle ranks due to the size,
decentralization of the sect and no need for middle management.[11]

### Sect Titles

**Common Titles**

The Regent is the leader of the whole of the Sabbat. The current Regent
is unknown, some even suspect the position is vacant. Archbishops and
Bishops oversee domains to maintain the Gehenna War effort. Usually a
Bishop holds a single domain, an Archbishop holds multiple domains or
one very important domain. Pack priest, the spiritual and tactical
leader of a pack, who helps guide his pack down their path. True Sabbat,
those Sabbat members who have officially joined the sect having passed
ritus and adjusted to a Path of Enlightenment. The Ductus role is hardly
ever used, as it used to be the tactical leader of the pack. Ductus is
now usually folded into the Pack Priest role.[12]

**Uncommon Titles**

Cardinals now refer to the warlords with mobile domains outside the
Gehenna War hot areas, losing their more administrative role for lead
hawkish warbands. Priscus work as spymasters, logisticians, and
councilors to Archbishops and Bishops. Front line fighters have little
respect for them, but they certainly have helped the sect survive the
war. Paladins and Templars titles that have fallen to disuse from young
not recognizing such authority or packs overusing the terms. Ductus has
become defunct as Pack Priest now encompasses the responsibilities.[13]

### Pack Structure

Packs are not only adapted to one path, but to one purpose as well. This
is mandated by the Bishop, Archbishop, or other leading figure. Though
some packs are their own authorities depending on the region, and how
well Bishops can back up a line of command. Nonetheless packs can be
infiltrators, soldiers, body-snatchers, saboteurs, etc. The pack’s unity
is the Sabbat’s greatest strength, even becoming infamous for being
almost creepily like-minded in goals in modern nights.[14]

#### Pack Roles

While Packs have one overarching, though broad, mission they break down
roles by ability there within. None of them are formal and easily fluid
as needed by the pack. Good pacts capitalize on their member’s affinity
and good Pack Priests know how to manage their pack members. Some
Cainites may find they play multiple roles. Some roles like Cleaner are
looked down upon, but useful.

**Roles**

- Warrior - Assassins, brutes, commanders, Guards
- Liaison - Fast talkers, tempters, seducers, silver-tongued devils
- Scout - Spies, radicalizers, gossip seekers
- Cleaner - silencing victims, cleaning massacres, covering tracks
- Scholar - Researcher, strategists, translators
- Procurer - Smugglers, Plunderers, thieves, traffickers[15]

## History

The Sabbat appeared from the destruction of the (first) Inquisition but
in ironic fashion took the most casualties as a sect from the
<a href="Second_Inquisition" class="wikilink"
title="Second Inquisition">Second Inquisition</a>. Before they were a
recognized sect they were small localized cults that adopted their own
ways to deal with the beast. Their methods had no sympathy for mortals
and out of the things that have changed, this has not.

In the early 13th century, the Catholic Church began the Albigensian
Crusade. A historical event that is only vaguely remembered by most
these days ended up with the church uncovering the truth of vampirism
and by turn, they created the Inquisition. This created panic for
vampires against a force that was effective at rooting them out and
destroying them. Elders would send their own childer to fight against
them and many neonates met their final death while their sires
disappeared into the darkness. Some elders even resorted to mass
embraces, a tactic later taken by the Sabbat.

By the end of the 14th century, the younger vampires that were being
mistreated or fearful of being sent as a sacrifice to the vampire
hunters rebelled against their sires. This rebellion is known as the
Anarch Revolt as the childer destroyed their sires and sent domains into
chaos. The foundations of the Blood Bond came under fire, as Vaulderie
was created which allowed kindred to shatter their bonds in a ritual.
The control the elders held was broken as the younger vampires broke
free from their oppressive bonds and created unshakeable bonds of
loyalty to one another. These actions eventually lead to the rumors of
antediluvians being destroyed. Notably, it's rumored that the
<a href="Lasombra" class="wikilink" title="Lasombra">Lasombra</a> and
<a href="Tzimisce" class="wikilink" title="Tzimisce">Tzimisce</a>
antediluvians were the first to go. The prior actions and the
destruction of ancients elevated the Anarchs to be seen as kinslayers by
the elders who planned to bring this to an end.

Despite this momentum, a network of influential and powerful elders
created a counter-rebellion that brought the Anarch Movement to its
knees. The conflict ended with the Convention of Thorns in 1493. Where
the Anarch leaders signed a peace treaty that acknowledged the primacy
of the Camarilla. However, not all agreed and signed as the next night
<a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarchs">Anarchs</a> raged
against the city of Silchester in an intentional violation of the
Masquerade. Those that participated or later joined after hearing about
the massacre that occurred and rejected the "new" Camarilla were marked
for death. They were not considered part of the original Anarch
Movement, instead being branded as a new group. The Sabbat.

When Gehenna began their elders and soon after their ancilla progeny
heard the Beckoning. Summoned away unlike the Kindred from other sects
who resisted as much as they could, the Sabbat found their new task as
set by the ominous rise of the Ancients. The cost of the war damaged the
domains that the Sabbat once held or left them abandoned as the Black
Hand headed the call. Mexico City, Detroit, Madrid and even New York
were once Sabbat domain, but those strongholds fell. Many of their
elders and ancillae took up arms against the antediluvians when the
Beckoning began and the rest, the cowards, took shelter among other
sects. These actions destroyed the structure that once held the Sabbat
together in the past.

Tonight their situation is one of desperation as they are spread out
geographically across three different war fronts and two different
theaters of retreat. Their methods and tactics have been redefined and
rather than hold domain as their goal they have turned to guerrilla
tactics. [16]

## The Paths of Enlightenment

The Pack priest influences and guides new Cainties on the Paths of
Enlightenment. The path compliments the pack’s purpose. Their path
replaces a Kindred’s Humanity. While Humanity denies the beast and keeps
it bay, the Paths allow the beast to have some sway over the Cainite, a
relationship to the Beast is sought since they believe denying the beast
is denying part of who the Cainite is. The beast and the Cainite walk
side by side in unlife. To mortals and other Kindred, such thoughts and
morals are alien.

Once on a Path of Enlightenment it is rare to change, as it requires
being broken down again to near wassail and finding a new teether to the
Beast. Many shy away from such a practice, a select few may see it as an
experience to help with transcendence.

Leaving a path has all the aforementioned risk of changing a path along
with most True Sabbat being repulsed by the notion to their core. Most
attempts will fail converting one's conditioning from thinking like an
animalistic predator to something vaguely mortal in values. Also the
road is lonely and dangerous; other pack members will try to reeducate a
wayward pack member and other sects will greatly distrust the converted
Kindred. Usually a mentor to help guide is needed, but there have been
expectations; the Sabbat are suspicious how the Lasombra pulled off
their exodus. Accusing many of having “Humanity adjacent” paths like the
seldom used Honorable Accord path, which reinforced their dislike of
such paths.[17]

### The Path of Caine

The premise of this path is to cultivate power in order to emulate the
first vampire, Caine. Blood is everything to Noddist, who will rarely
pass up a chance for it. They view the beast as a servant and not one to
be denied, instead considering it as an eternal conflict that must be
nourished and respected. Their obsession with power makes them eager to
grow and even overconfident as they desire to prove its value. They seek
to challenge themselves, making them invaluable assets in the Gehenna
war. This tendency, however, can have them overreach after the thrill of
a feeding. Only their ideals of righteousness prevent them from being
impulsive as they emulate the Dark Father. Noddists are viewed as a
dangerous ally as they do not suffer from sunken costs and when one
tactic doesn't work, they will change to another. This change can
include turning on their own allies without warning in order to bolster
their own personal gain.

**Ethics**

- Lower one's generation and concentration on one's Blood to become
  closer to Caine and delight in the power it yields.
- Partake in all blood to understand and build wisdom from the power
  contained.
- Leaders must not fail and should they hold the pack back, diablerize
  them.

**Disciplines:**
<a href="Blood_Sorcery" class="wikilink" title="Blood Sorcery">Blood
Sorcery</a> and <a href="Blood_Sorcery_Rituals" class="wikilink"
title="Blood Sorcery Rituals">Blood Sorcery Rituals</a>,
<a href="Animalism" class="wikilink" title="Animalism">Animalism</a>,
<a href="Obfuscate" class="wikilink" title="Obfuscate">Obfuscate</a>,
<a href="Potence" class="wikilink" title="Potence">Potence</a> and
<a href="Protean" class="wikilink" title="Protean">Protean</a>.[18]

### The Path of Cathari

This path is one of excess, indulgence, and giving in to every desire no
mater how atrocious, but it usually serves a purpose. To outsiders
looking in, the Albigensians may seem selfish, immature, and hedonistic.
But if they are Damned, why not act the part? They revel in their wicked
nature, doing whatever their Beast drives them to do. This path has the
most members. It's the easiest to follow, especially for young
shovelheads, because the philosophy not only justifies, but encourages
them to do whatever they want whenever they want to. They spoil their
Beast, and they aren't subtle about it. In the Gehenna War, the
Albigensians are often used as fodder, and they don't even argue it,
they can just make more. Away from the war, they tempt, deal, and ruin
the virtuous, or anyone they want, really.

**Ethics**

- Experience every vice that being undead affords.
- Accept being a creature outside of mortal morality and lead others
  into damnation or destruction.
- Indulge all temptations, give oneself wholly to the beast.

**Disciplines:** Physical disciplines,
<a href="Auspex" class="wikilink" title="Auspex">Auspex</a>,
<a href="Obfuscate" class="wikilink" title="Obfuscate">Obfuscate</a> and
<a href="Presence" class="wikilink" title="Presence">Presence</a>.[19]

### The Path of Death and the Soul

This is the most studious of paths, with their main subject being death.
Necronomists aim to study it, understand it, and master it, so that
their enemies stay dead. They fight the Gehenna War from a distance as
strategists or engineers, and keep their Beasts at arms length unlike
most other paths. And unlike other paths, they tend to Embrace
traditionally rather than during a Mass shovelhead Embrace. It's not
that they are any less violent, but they are smarter about it, planning
ahead and leaving little to luck or chance and with no interest in a
fair fight or honor. Do not mistake them as a path that can be reasoned
with, as interacting with Necronomists can be chilling and detached, as
if they are looking at you like a science experiment, because they are.
They plot how to best use you, or how your death can be turned to their
advantage.

**Ethics**

- Leave no survivors at the conclusion of violent conflict.
- Investigate the relics and remains of death – personal, historical,
  occult – in order to discern the details of how the conflict ended and
  its existential outcomes.
- Hasten death’s arrival, from humblest insect to the much-lamented
  flower of human life.

**Disciplines:**
<a href="Oblivion" class="wikilink" title="Oblivion">Oblivion</a> and
<a href="Oblivion_Ceremonies" class="wikilink"
title="Ceremonies">Ceremonies</a>,
<a href="Auspex" class="wikilink" title="Auspex">Auspex</a>,
<a href="Blood_Sorcery" class="wikilink" title="Blood Sorcery">Blood
Sorcery</a>, and
<a href="Dominate" class="wikilink" title="Dominate">Dominate</a>.[20]

### The Path of Power and the Inner Voice

This path's main goal is to subjugate and impose their will upon the
world around them. Sometimes even the Beast itself is enslaved by the
most accomplished of Unifiers. To them, the Beast is a tool, knowing
when to use it is key to mastering it. Unifiers use their force of
personality to exert their will upon mortals and reign with tyranny.
Within their own packs, a delicate balance of dependence must be
maintained between its members, lest they diablerize their priest and/or
screw each other over for their own personal gain. They are ironically
the least likely to kill each other, instead the ones deemed weaker
simply serve the strong. In the Gehenna War, they are natural leaders,
front-line fighters, and specialists. In the mortal world, they aim to
be served by those they deem lesser.

**Ethics**

- Reward success and excoriate failure, including one’s own.
- The world around the Cainite exists to be exploited to their benefit:
  The enlightened Cainite bends it to their will.
- Force those who are beneath one’s own position into servitude using
  all the means at one’s command.

**Disciplines:** Social and/or Mental Disciplines first, Physical
Disciplines second. Dominate, Fortitude, Potence, and Presence.[21]

### The Path of the Sun

A Thin-Blood only (and perhaps some Caitiff) path that take pride in the
fact that they are free of the influence of the Antediluvians. It's a
new and growing path that isn't exactly set, and their beliefs are ever
changing. Most Cainites don't even consider this a real path.
Thin-Bloods don't last long in the Sabbat, whether they are killed
during their Creation Rites, or frailty gets the better of them. But the
Thin-Bloods have one advantage they love to use over the full blooded,
and that's their ability to face the sun without burning as quickly.
Prometheans use this to their advantage, luring hunters to their
enemies' havens before dusk, or becoming assassins with a day shift.
They refuse diablerie, seeing it as a way to keep themselves untainted
by the cursed Antediluvians, while at the same time testing the limits
of Caine's curse. The best of both worlds.

**Ethics**

- Let neither one’s mortal nor Cainite heritage limit one’s potential.
- Destroy Cainites but never consume them, leaving oneself untainted.
- Do not allow other would-be Prometheans to serve the polluted
  bloodlines of the Antediluvians.

**Disciplines:** Thin-Blood Alchemy[22]

## Forsaken Paths

The following paths have very few followers if at all, but their ideas
still live on. Some of these are no longer viable in modern nights, and
not every follower of these paths even consider themselves Sabbat. [23]

#### The Path of the Beast

A violent path that sees their Beast as their true selves rather than a
separate entity, seeing their human minds as an obstacle. While they
become powerful quickly, it's hard for them to avoid drinking in excess
over time, whether that be mortals or each other. They thrive more in
the front lines of the Gehenna war or in domains particularly
violent.[24]

#### The Path of Honorable Accord

It is rumored that this philosophy has been practiced since before the
founding of the Sabbat. They are known as "paladins of Caine,"
sacrificing their personal desires to become one with the Beast, but
this has fallen out of practice. It wouldn't be surprising to a Cainite
if a tyrannical Camarilla Prince has practiced this path before because
the older they are, usually the further they are from Humanity. But no
one really knows, and this path is seen more as a philosophy, which is
why it is considered forsaken among the Sabbat.[25]

#### The Path of Lilith

"The Dark Mother," and "the Mother of Monsters," are a couple of titles
for Lilith. Followers of her path may believe her to be the true creator
of vampires, among other kinds of supernatural creatures, but the
Caine-centric Sabbat see this as heresy. Perhaps this is another Path
accused of not being a real path, or not Sabbat at all. Despite anyone's
beliefs, according to the Book of Nod, Lilith helped Caine after he was
cursed and cast out of the land of Nod, only to betray her soon
after.[26]

## Ritae

Ritae is another word for 'rituals' within the Sabbat, 'ritus' for a
singular ritual. Rituals are a huge part of this sect, it is used to
connect with other cainites and their packs. Each pack and/or each Path
of Enlightenment may even have their own unique ritae. But in general,
there are two different types. Auctoritas Ritae, which is more formal,
and Ignoblis Ritae, which has to do with vernacular. The Sabbat uses
Ritae to have a sense of purpose, for they are nothing without it.[27]

### Auctoritas Ritae

These are formal rituals or grand rites almost every pack uses and it's
purpose is to unite members as a Sect. For example, Creation Rites, and
the Vaulderie, which is practiced by almost every Sabbat member no
matter what Path or pack they reside, though sometimes the pack Priest
might modify it slightly to fit their individual group. These grand
rites' main purpose is to indoctrinate each cainite to become a single
minded Sword of Caine, like indoctrinating people into a hive mind cult,
but vampires.[28]

#### The Vaulderie

The most well known ritual. This practice consists of usually the whole
pack contributing their vitae into a chalice or other kind of container,
and then the Pack Priest imbues the mixture with a power that both
breaks previous Blood Bonds, and forms new ones with whoever contributed
to the mixture. This bond among the pack members is called "vincula,"
and is usually weaker than normal Blood Bonds, but can become stronger
overtime, rendering packmates unable to betray each other. Though
sometimes certain members are excluded from contributing their vitae,
but must imbibe in the Vaulderie anyway, so they are bonded to everyone,
but no one is bonded to them. Refusing to partake is an act of treason
and the punishment is up to the Priest and the pack. And those who go
too long without the Vaulderie may experience withdrawal symptoms.[29]

#### Creation Rites

This is the act of creating new Cainites for the Sabbat, and it's one of
the most important ritae. Again each Path and perhaps even each Pack do
it differently. From dark but splendid displays, to the classic
shovelheading and burying alive of fledglings, Creation Rites could look
like many things. What's most consistent is that they usually Embrace
more than one person, several people actually, and throw them into a pit
or bury them alive, and they see who can dig themselves out. Whoever
comes out alive is then stripped of their humanity and indoctrinated
into a Path. Sometimes, finding the aftermath of a Creation Rite is the
first clue that the Sabbat are in town.[30]

#### Monomacy

The blood duel, a tradition older than the Anarch Revolt. This can be
called when a disagreement cannot be settled by their Priest, a contest
of combat or some other skill. Whoever loses gets diablerized by the
winner as the Sabbat believe the winner has Caine's favor. This is the
only ritus any member of the Sabbat can demand, and anyone else is not
allowed to participate, but that doesn't mean cheating doesn't happen.
Player characters can even attempt to call Monomacy to see if their
antagonist(s) will humor them, but if the player's character wins, it's
not a guarantee they would honor that.[31]

#### Blood Feast

From the Cainite's perspective, the relationship between vampire and
human should be predator and prey, predator eat their prey, and they
don't care who they are as people. That is what this ritus demonstrates,
that humans are simply food. During this practice, the Cainites engorge
themselves with mortal blood, sating their hunger in such a way it seems
excessive, because it is. Usually these mortals are kidnapped
beforehand. Again, this may look different depending on the Path and
Pack, it could look like something from a medieval torture chamber where
victims are bound and used as a faucet, or it could look like an
elaborate fancy dinner with the family. This is usually a celebratory
ritus after a major event. Players might struggle to decide between
saving some of the victims or joining in the feast, especially if some
of those victims are part of their herd, or a touchstone or two. The
victims of blood feasts are often targeted.[32]

#### Festival of the Dead

Also known as Festivo dello Estinto. This ritus is to commemorate their
fallen, including even those from the Anarch Revolt centuries ago. They
also use this time to think about the First and Second Inquisitions and
how they have killed so many Cainites. Some even use this time to finish
unfinished business, putting an end to it. This is a somber event, like
a memorial, a time when the players could have the offensive
advantage.[33]

#### Fire Dance

Cainites use this ritual to face their fear of fire and gain respect
from their packmates. A bonfire or other large flame is lit and the
members egg each other on to get through the flames, or even dance
through them. The Priests even participate, but that could be risky
because if they fail, it could lead to Monomacy or final death being
called. Sometimes this ritus is held at the same time as another ritae,
and it's always a loud occasion.[34]

#### Blood Bath

This is for when a title or position of power has been claimed beyond a
Pack, such as the Bishop or Arch Bishop. This is like a cursed baptism,
as they person who claimed the title is anointed or doused in preferably
mortal blood, but animal blood works, too. But if they can get their
hands on vampire vitae, even better, such as the former Bishop that just
lost their title. At the end of this ritus, the witnesses drink from the
pooled vitae and pledge their allegiance to the Children of Caine.[35]

#### War Party

A War Party is similar to a Bloodhunt in that they pursue and diablerize
their enemies. They go after strong, high value targets as a pack. War
Parties are happening more frequently again as of late. If players come
across a pack on the hunt, it's unlife or final death.[36]

#### Wild Hunt

The Wild Hunt is the closest thing the Sabbat has to a Bloodhunt because
this time they are hunting a traitor within their ranks, or a
particularly hated foe. Usually only the pack Priest can call for a Wild
Hunt, but unofficially this can happen at other times. The one being
hunted is to be diablerized of course, but proof must be brought back to
officially end the hunt.[37]

### Lapsing Auctoritas Ritae

The following ritae are not practiced as much, as the decentralization
of the Sabbat caused some of their traditions to become lost. What used
to be more universal is either no longer practiced at all, or only
practiced by some packs.[38]

#### The Binding

This is an oath of loyalty to the Sabbat. It's short and sweet, a simple
statement and it's over. The words used depend on the pack and where
they reside, or even how young or old the members are. Not everyone
remembers the original wording.[39]

#### Games of Instinct

This is essentially 'sports' for the Sabbat. They play together in games
to blow off steam, but of course they are not subtle. Some examples of
these games are as such.

- *Demolition Derby*: When packs set vehicles on fire with captive
  innocents and the Cainites crash into each other like bumper cars. The
  last to leave their car wins.

<!-- -->

- *Boarding Party*: A pack holds up a vehicle people cannot escape from,
  such as a cruise ship or a plane or a party bus, and they kill
  everyone inside. Sometimes they use the vehicle to go somewhere after.

<!-- -->

- *Dog Tagging*: This is when a pack hunts down a werewolf with the
  intent to tag it's ear before letting it go again. It's more of a
  statement than anything.

<!-- -->

- *Pandering*: While in other domains, the pack singles out a kindred
  they deem weak and hunt after them. It usually ends in diablerie.[40]

#### Sermons of Caine

A mockery of a religious service such as a Catholic mass, a Pack Priest
delivers a sermon while referencing the Book of Nod. A lot of packs no
longer have access to the book, and so it has fallen out of
practice.[41]

#### Palla Grande

Also known as a "Dance of the Dead," this is mockery of the Camarilla
Court. But as the numbers lowered, this practice is mostly
abandoned.[42]

### Ignoblis Ritae

These tend to be informal rituals created within packs to differentiate
them. They can be used to test the courage, faith, loyalty, etc., to
each other. Some packs have more or less than the other due to factors
such as age. Almost every pack has their own hunting ritual, or hunting
ritae, where they hunt together. Coteries hunting for a specific pack
can use this against them, as they just have to follow the patterns.
These are almost never practiced with other packs.[43]

#### Common Ritae

Rituals done most often, sometimes nightly. The practices that
identifies each individual pack and reflects their culture.

- Path of Caine
  - Their ritae are often used to reach altered states of consciousness,
    using pain, deprivation of blood, stressful positions, and sometimes
    Disciplines. The Book of Nod is often referenced in their everyday
    practices. To overcome the curses of Caine, one must have steady
    faith by submitting to the will of the Dark Father.[44]
- Path of Cathari
  - Rituals for this path are fun and bring joy to the undead hearts of
    the pack. They indulge in their desires and unlike many other Paths,
    they include mortals. Most of the time they don't survive, but one
    might be unlucky enough for the Embrace if they show enough
    enthusiasm for the depravity. Their rituals also tend to look the
    most 'occult' with their tools often including black candles,
    incense, and occult symbols.[45]
- Path of Death and the Soul
  - They love to demonstrate how fragile life is and how permanent death
    is. This is one of the most structured Paths, and so their Ignoblis
    Ritae are also organized, planned on a calendar, and performed with
    precision. They use places of death to conduct these ritae, and
    there are often corpses, ghosts, and zombies present as part of the
    ritual in some way.[46]
- Path of Power and the Inner Voice
  - Their rituals are usually tests of mental fortitude under stress,
    endurance, dominance, and competitions, often done without combat.
    Packmates test each other nightly for weaknesses. Sometimes they may
    be tasked to gain the trust of another supernatural enemy, or
    successfully shadow a coterie. Mortals are mere tools in their
    ritae, cattle, and nothing more.[47]

#### Contrition Ritae

These are the punishments and consequences given to packmates whenever
they do wrong in the eyes of their peers.

- Path of Caine
  - Punishments are both painful and a teaching moment. Again they
    recite the Book of Nod, and at the same time they subject packmates
    of lesser crimes to torturous punishments. [48]
- Path of Cathari
  - Albigensians see no use in feeling guilty, nor do they value
    forgiveness. Sometimes a pack may humiliate someone for not being
    loyal enough or depraved enough, but for the most part there are
    very few Contrition Ritae within this path. [49]
- Path of Death and the Soul
  - Reapers punish disloyalty, cowardice, and sympathy for the enemy
    quickly, as they have little time for it. The try to correct a
    packmates spirituality with academic and metaphysical
    interrogations, as well as punish them creatively. One can be buried
    again, or forced to daysleep with their victim's body, or what's
    left of it. [50]
- Path of Power and the Inner Voice
  - If a packmate within this path is still deemed as 'correctable'
    after committing an offense, they are simply put to work to do
    menial, tedious, often lowly tasks to serve the strong, such as
    tending to the ghouls and blood dolls, which is one of the worst
    punishments reserved for those who have completely ruined their
    reputation. This is until they have the chance to prove themselves
    again.[51]

#### Hunting Ritae

They may not always hunt together, but when they do, each path has their
own way of doing it.

- Path of Caine
  - They usually go after other vampires, especially Thin-bloods, rather
    than humans when hunting together since diablerie is a huge part of
    their twisted beliefs. The Pack Priest decides who gets to consume
    the heartsblood, but the others packmates may take other trophies
    from the victim.[52]
- Path of Cathari
  - They like to play with their food, hiding their nature until the
    last second, and teasing their desperate victims to try to escape.
    They may even make a ghoul out of the last surviving mortal from
    their hunt. Their favorites are hunters.[53]
- Path of Death and the Soul
  - They tend to feed from the recently dead or close to dying.
    Sometimes they even feed from the energy of ghosts.[54]
- Path of Power and the Inner Voice
  - The members of packs within this path usually keep around a large
    number of herd members or blood dolls, like actual cattle. Traveling
    with that many mortal is enough of a burden for them that they
    rather slaughter them all and collect new cattle in their new
    location.[55]

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Antagonists" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Antagonists">Category:Antagonists</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 6

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Pages 7-8

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Page 9

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Page 13

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 93

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 80

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 74

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Pages 7-12

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Page 78

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, Page 77-78

[11]

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, pages 80-83

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, pages 84-85

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, pages 79

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, pages 85-89

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 91-94

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 79-80

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 21

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 24

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 25

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 27

[22] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 28-29

[23] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 31

[24]

[25]

[26]

[27] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 55

[28] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 56

[29] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 56-57

[30] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 57-58

[31] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 58

[32] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 58-60

[33] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 60-61

[34] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 61

[35] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 61-62

[36] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 62

[37] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 62-63

[38] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 63

[39]

[40] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 63-64

[41] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 64

[42]

[43]

[44] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 64-65

[45] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 66

[46]

[47] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 67-68

[48] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 65

[49]

[50] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 67

[51] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Sabbat:_The_Black_Hand"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand">Vampire: The
Masquerade Sabbat: The Black Hand</a>, page 68

[52]

[53]

[54]

[55]
