**Salubri** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of Vampire: The
Masquerade. Most of their kind lost to undead usurpers, the highly
desirable Blood of the hunted Salubri is a prize to other vampires.
This, and their reluctance to
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a>, makes
them rare in the modern nights. They often recruit those on the edge of
death, believing their curse can provide the worthy a second chance, and
they count some of the most humane vampires among their ranks.[1]

## Background

Once known for their wisdom and knowledge, the clan barely exists these
nights. Their legacy is one of tragedy and a painful lesson of the
eternal struggle. Their childer are few in the modern nights; as per
their customs, they generally only embrace once they've reached
Golconda, even though this is only speculation given the current state
of Kindred affairs. The choice of a childe for the Salubri is an
intensely personal decision in comparison to other clans. They usually
desire those with inquisitive behaviors and personal struggles within
them. Salubri rarely embrace on a mere whim. Choosing a childe who has a
problem which they must then solve for themselves, be it terminal
illness or an unquenchable drive to right a wrong done to them.

It is believed that Saulot, their progenitor, was devoured by a
<a href="Tremere" class="wikilink" title="Tremere">Tremere</a> to
strengthen his own clan's Blood. It is also believed that Saulot was the
first Kindred to ever reach Golconda, and so his lineage still attempts
to walk in that same path centuries after his death. More often than
not, the Salubri lead troubled lives, only burdened more by the eternal
life they've been given and a third eye, which each Salubri has. Still,
they persevere to solve the mystery of Caine's damnation and help others
find their salvation. However, the power to help comes with the power to
harm, and many Kindred believe in the rumors of these Cyclops being able
to steal their souls. Some Salubri even take a hard stance of desiring
to destroy those too entangled with their beast or keep their distance
from other Kindred has done nothing but solidify the speculations about
them.

Very few domains allow them within their walls because they are running
into trouble with others; neither
<a href="Camarilla" class="wikilink" title="Camarilla">Camarilla</a>
Princes nor <a href="Anarch" class="wikilink" title="Anarch">Anarch</a>
Barons are willing to keep them long. Many of the Salubri are still
being hunted for actions of their sires centuries ago. Their fate in the
modern night is grim. Still, they face this adversity with a perspective
rare within Kindred. Willing to help others walk the difficult path of
Golconda, plenty of Salubri seems to want to help others rather than
cause strife. Others seek to protect them in other ways by hunting down
wights and other low humanity monsters that plague Kindred and cause
nothing but problems.[2]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Salubri as well as the uses they find
in it. [3]

- **Auspex** enables the Salubri to perceive what's hidden in the world
  and reveal truths. With the strength of Dominate, they've managed to
  turn this power into something of a balm for another Kindred as well.
- **Dominate** is used to unburden others of the horrors Kindred
  experience or to erase the memories of atrocities Kindred commit.
- **Fortitude** has aided the Salubri in surviving the endless hunts
  against them, as well as developing the power in a way to aid others.

## Bane

<section begin=bane/>

**Hunted** - Their vitae has a unique trait where, when another clan
partakes in their Blood, they find it difficult to pull away. Once a
non-Salubri has consumed at least one
<a href="Hunger_system" class="wikilink" title="Hunger">Hunger</a> level
worth, they must make a Hunger
<a href="Frenzy" class="wikilink" title="Frenzy">Frenzy</a> test at
difficulty 2 + the Salubri's Bane Severity (3 + the Salubri's Bane
Severity for Banu Haqim). If they fail, they will continue to consume
the Salubri until pried off. Additionally, each Salubri has a third eye,
and while it's not always human-like, it's always present and cannot be
obscured by supernatural powers. In addition to this, whenever they
activate a Discipline, the eye weeps vitae, with its intensity
correlating to the level of the Discipline used. The Blood flowing from
the eye can trigger a Hunger Frenzy test from nearby vampires with
Hunger 4 or more.

<section end=bane/>

[4]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Asceticism** - Whenever their Hunger is below three, the Salubri
suffer a penalty equal to their Bane Severity to any Discipline dice
pools. The bleeding third eye still remains.

<section end="altbane" />

[5]

## Compulsion

<section begin=compulsion/>

**Affective Empathy** - Overwhelmed with empathy for a personal problem
of someone else, any action not taken to help the person mitigate their
suffering is at a two-dice penalty. This Compulsion continues until the
sufferer's burden is eased, a more critical problem arises, or the scene
ends.

<section end=compulsion/>

[6]

## Example archetypes

There are so few Salubri in the modern night that when they do appear
within a chronicle, they are there for a purpose, leaving the clan to
rely less on archetypes.[7]

- **Tired of Running** - Time and time again this Salubri has been
  chased from one Domain to the next, seeking out one place to settle
  down for more than a few nights, yet that never seems to happen for
  them, as even once they are safe, they suffer from the paranoia of the
  what ifs.
- **Misunderstood Healer** - They do their best to aid others, but
  regardless of their actions, the preconceived notions of their clan
  aid others to cast judgment on them and mistrust them.

## Notable characters

<a href="Dalia_Nakache" class="wikilink" title="Dalia Nakache">Dalia
Nakache</a>

## Gallery

<File:Salubricompanion.png%7CSalubri> <File:Dalia> Nakache.jpg|Dalia
Nakache

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 13-14

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 14

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 15

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 58

[6]

[7]
