\_\_TOC\_\_

**Toreador** are one of the fourteen vampire clans of Vampire: The
Masquerade. Known for their seductive nature, enthralling demeanor, and
eloquent grace to the point of obsession, Toreador vampires
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a> artists
and lovers into their ranks, forever trying to stir their own deadened
hearts. Supernaturally graceful and charming, the Divas are always
looking for the next thrill, leaving a detritus of discarded lovers and
victims in their wake.[1]

A clan who exudes beauty, one who seeks out the aesthetics in life and
holds their obsessions with it. However, it is a mistake to think of
them as nothing but Divas and perverts. Beauty is power and the way they
utilize love to influence those around them to do just about anything is
an invaluable weapon. The elders of their clan stress that the
<a href="Embrace" class="wikilink" title="Embrace">Embrace</a> must be
given to those worthy and that the clan seeks out pioneers of different
arts. The clan prospers when it's filled with fresh ideas and those who
value experimentation and discovery of new aesthetics. Because of this
trait, this clan is riddled with a wide range of artists. However, to
the Toreador, art is not only done with paint or a pencil.

Actors, singers, poets, and more fill in their ranks as long as they are
viewed to be bringing something new to the table. And although they seek
out the best of the best, it's not unheard of for one of the Hedonists
to embrace another in a moment of weakness and haste. Creating a subpar
childe after the pool of blood that they died in was too beautiful to
let them go. Still, the clan holds its diversity between talent, beauty,
and other core traits their sire found as an asset. [2]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Toreador as well as the uses they
find in it. [3]

- **Auspex** allows the Degenerates to find mortals that possess
  exquisite experiences for them to try as well as seek out other
  Kindred and cater to their desires or antagonize them with truths the
  Toreador shouldn't know.
- **Celerity** is used by the Toreador to aid in their craft and while
  they may claim they are not fighters, they have been known to strike
  their foes before they were even able to react. In feeding, they use
  this power to take their blood before a mortal has even realized what
  occurred.
- **Presence** is the power which they have mastered, using it in
  conjunction with Auspex to pierce and manipulate the minds of mortals
  and Kindred alike. Be it to engage in carnal pleasures or to take
  their fill of blood.

## Bane

<section begin=bane/>

**Aesthetic Fixation** - A desire for beauty takes control over the
Toreador and when in lesser surroundings they suffer. When they are
within settings they find less than beautiful, they take a penalty equal
to their Bane Severity when using Disciplines.

<section end=bane/>

[4]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Agonizing Empathy** - Whenever their feeding causes Aggravated damage
to a mortal, the vampire suffers the same damage in return but cannot
receive more than their Bane Severity. This damage is generally
Aggravated. The damage itself is reflected as vivid bruising wherever
they bit their victim as internal bleeding takes place.

<section end="altbane" />

[5]

## Compulsion

<section begin=compulsion/>

**Obsession** - Utterly obsessed with a single thing, the Toreador
cannot speak of anything but that object. Be it a person, a piece of
artwork, a blood splatter in the right lighting, or the sunrise itself,
they cannot take their attention from it. Any other actions receive a
two-dice penalty. This Compulsion lasts until they can no longer
perceive the object or the scene ends.

<section end=compulsion/>

[6]

## Example archetypes

- **Anxious Graduate Student** - Once a wallflower at parties, they were
  embraced by their sire who saw more in them. The unlife has done them
  well as they expanded their comfort outside of their originally small
  social circles thanks to Presence.
- **Eternal Muse** - A person of obsession they were embraced by their
  sire to stop the aging process and preserve their beauty for all to
  see.
- **Drag Queen** - Artists, performers, and singers are magnets to most
  Toreadors. This one was no exception, embraced for their skills and
  talents and to thrive in unlife doing what they love.
- **Outcast** - Perhaps their sire thought their skills were better or
  perhaps they didn't care. This Toreador was embraced, but their clan
  does not match them well. Without the artistry like others and the
  social skills to match, they struggle to thrive within their clan.

## Notable characters

**<a href="Helena" class="wikilink" title="Helena">Helena</a>**

<a href="Francois_Villon" class="wikilink"
title="François Villon"><strong>François Villon</strong></a>

**<a href="Victoria_Ash" class="wikilink" title="Victoria Ash">Victoria
Ash</a>**

<a href="April_Bosley" class="wikilink"
title="April Bosley"><strong>April Bosley</strong></a>

<a href="Emem_Louis" class="wikilink" title="Emem Louis"><strong>Emem
Louis</strong></a>

<a href="Journey_Atkins" class="wikilink"
title="Journey Atkins"><strong>Journey Atkins</strong></a>

<a href="Félicien_Beaumont" class="wikilink"
title="Félicien Beaumont"><strong>Félicien Beaumont</strong></a>

**<a href="Jeremiah_Casaubon" class="wikilink"
title="Jeremiah Casaubon">Jeremiah Casaubon</a>**

**<a href="Hilda_MacAndrews" class="wikilink"
title="Hilda MacAndrews">Hilda MacAndrews</a>**

<a href="Ysabella_Moore" class="wikilink"
title="Ysabella Moore"><strong>Ysabella Moore</strong></a>

<a href="Patience_Boswell" class="wikilink"
title="Patience Boswell"><strong>Patience Boswell</strong></a>

**Carmelita Neillson** - A Brazilian-Irish Archeologist, she spends her
time seeking out older Kindred to unearth their past. Carmelita breaks
the pretty but talentless stereotype set for her clan by successfully
gathering knowledge of Methuselah's awakening from torpor or stealing
away Sabbat scriptures and cultivating her information into a library.
She is forbidden by the Camarilla to store her information online, so
she keeps several "Neillson" libraries in hidden locations. [7]

**Annabelle** - The French-born Primogen of
<a href="Chicago,_Illinois" class="wikilink" title="Chicago">Chicago</a>
is the grandchilde and secret pawn of Helena. She has been involved in
politics with the Camarilla for nearly two centuries. She's served on
the council through the reigns of four different princes, survived
fires, purges and lupine attacks. She solidified her power as a powerful
swing vote during the Council Wars.[8] Annabelle throws parties
frequently, one or more a week, where others can rub elbows with the
powerful or admire new and old art. She maintains connections not only
in Kindred society but the mortal art scene as well under the human
guise of Elain Stanley-Greer. Who is able to pull the strings to get a
headline bumped or a story buried. [9]

**Eletria** - Former Prince of Veracruz, childe of Helena, and master
artist, Eletria was born in Roman-occupied Sparta. Eletria is long lived
and has been a Blood Bound thrall to Helena for as long as she’s been
Kindred. When the Bond finally weakened in modern nights she attacked
Helena and fled her former master for Indianapolis. Here, she operates
the Lhiannan Club and attempts to resist the Beckoning long enough to
tie up unfinished business.[10]

**Modius** - His disparate and failed attempts for power have him called
a “pauper Prince.” [11]  Born to a French immigrant family in the US,
Modius lived a thousand lives and yearned for more. His ambition
impressed Annabelle and she embraced him secretly. His ambition never
waned, he had failed attempts to take Chicago from Former Prince Lodin
which ousted the Toreador to Gary. Claiming himself Prince of Gary he
bided his time always eying Chicago. This put him at odds with Juggler
who became his fiercest rival. His whereabouts are unknown in modern
nights. [12]

**Rafael de Corazon** - A Camarilla founder who was integral in founding
institutions of the sect. Proposing the name, traditions, and hierarchy
of each domain should have. He fervently supported the tradition of the
Masquerade and proposed temperance in attracting the Anarchs to the
sect.[13][14]

## Culture

### Embrace

Clan elders have stressed Toreador offers some selectiveness in their
Embrace, going for those that live on the cutting edge of culture,
thought, and the mainstream. Many Toreadors go for artist, a term that
can mean someone who strive to perfect anything: painters, actors, sex
workers, well connected managers, collectors, academics, etc. Anyone who
can offer the clan new experience, stimulation, or entertainment is fair
game for a good and proper embrace.

However, the Toreador curse also affects their judgment in Embraces. Not
all their choices may be best on getting the best in the field, but
rather some Embrace a one night stand that went too far. Their fangs may
turn a hedonistic party boy, a one-hit wonder, or a beautiful person who
lacks any skills. A Toreador may even Embrace someone from a quality
they saw in their childe that was too lovable to let go.[15]   This
makes the clan very diverse though having people of all stripes.[16]

### Mortal society

Given the aims of their embrace it is not too surprising the Toreadors
hold a lot of influence in mortal society. Toreadors clutch to the
industries that grasp at human stimulation and culture: television,
news, music, art, wine bars, nightclubs, etc. Many may only attribute
<a href="Ventrue" class="wikilink" title="Ventrue">Ventrue</a> with
financial acumen, but Toreadors own many properties and business on a
global scale. Of course unlike the Clan of Kings, many don’t do this for
money, they do it for the thrill. The chance to mingle with human
society, see humans feel real emotions, or just enjoy the thrill of a
new venture.[17]  

On a more personal level many Toreadors love experience with herds and
retainers. Standout personal assistants, clothing and cars that leave an
impression on their herd. Though the Roses also have a tendency to hide
their feedings as sensual. The sensation of physical intimacy and
feeding is a common vice among the Divas. There is also the tendency for
some Toreadors to become obsessed with a mortal, keeping them around
like a muse and being very careful with their feeding. In many cases
when the mortal runs out of whatever kept the Toreador’s attention they
are discarded and left a shell.[18]

Oftentimes Toreadors settle disputes with each other through twisting
their kine into competing with each other. The success and failure of
their pawns settling the score on the competing Toreador overlords. [19]

### Kindred society

The Toreadors usually consider themselves the foremost experts on the
human experience keeping a hand on the pulse of human society. They keep
Elysia up to date and help their sects stay in step with the ever
changing mores and customs of human society. They are also known for
their excellent social graces and gifts of the voice. They spread news
like rapid fire and whisper gossip that can bring a Kindred low.

The artist of the clan creates art that conveys the changes in the
political scene. Satire a masquerade breacher, having pieces celebrating
Kindred victory, or news of a Primogen’s scandal hidden in a painting.
In recent nights, this has allowed Toreadors to connect with Kindred of
others clans. Cheaper Museum entries, the internet, and wider access to
art have made art more available to people of all walks of life, Kindred
included. Artist across clans can now relate to one another. Elder Divas
dislike what they consider mixing their art with the unwashed masses,
meanwhile neonates and ancillae enjoy more are able to view and discuss
their works.[20]

Many Toreadors are experts at discovering the needs and desires of
Kindred. The clan’s salons are akin to invite-only venues where those on
the guest list doubles as a list of who’s who. They are known to be well
connected either through their large network on another clanmates
network both inside the Kindred world and out. Of course such an ask
comes with a price, but the Roses vary in their wants. This makes many
of them enthusiastic about coteries hoping to gain a deeper insight,
evolve their craft, or expand their network. Those coterie members who
can handle the fits of Toreador indulgence and obsession can have a
strong ally who can whisper in the right ears.[21]

### Factional differences

The Camarilla Toreador are proud of their lineage as they were
instrumental in the formation of the sect. Toreador scholars even
believe it was the Toreador’s own, Rafael de Corazon who came up with
the name of the sect. Many Toreadors see the Camarilla as the safest
option where they can interact with humanity and prey on humans without
falling to their beasts. They see Anarchs as boorish with misplaced
ideas.[22]

Those that join the Anarchs are called Abstract Toreadors, the Camarilla
calling their political views out of the norm. Many Abstracts don’t want
to  live in the rigidity of the Camarilla. A life free of exclusive
clubs, mainstream conventions, and regulated art. They see the Camarilla
gilded cage that security hampers. They take the name Abstract with
pride now as it shows their different view of the world.[23]

The Camarilla Toreadors and Abstracts often use their minions in
contests against each other. Retainers are sent to fight at times, but
more often they compete in various battle fields: arts, performance, and
other tests of skill. Humans used as pawns in the grand games of the
Toreadors in the war of ages is a common sight.[24]

## Exclusive Loresheets

Toreador characters have special access to the following loresheets:

• <a href="Loresheets#Descendant_of_Helena" class="wikilink"
title="Descendant of Helena">Descendant of Helena</a>

• <a href="Loresheets#Descendant_of_Baron_Vollgirre" class="wikilink"
title="Descendant of Baron Vollgirre">Descendant of Baron Vollgirre</a>

## Gallery

<File:Carmelita> Neillson character.png|Carmelita Neillson <File:Helena>
character.png|<a href="Helena" class="wikilink" title="Helena">Helena</a>
<File:Annabelle>
character.png|<a href="Annabelle" class="wikilink" title="Annabelle">Annabelle</a>
<File:Eletria> character.png|Eletria <File:Modius> character.png|Modius
<File:Victoria> Ash
character.png|<a href="Victoria_Ash" class="wikilink" title="Victoria Ash">Victoria
Ash</a> <File:April> Bosley Swansong
character.jpg|<a href="April_Bosley" class="wikilink" title="April Bosley">April
Bosley</a> <File:Emem> alt
costume.PNG|<a href="Emem_Louis" class="wikilink" title="Emem Louis">Emem Louis</a>
<File:Felicien>
Beaumont.PNG|<a href="Félicien_Beaumont" class="wikilink"
title="Félicien Beaumont">Félicien Beaumont</a> <File:Jeremiah>
Casaubon.PNG|<a href="Jeremiah_Casaubon" class="wikilink"
title="Jeremiah Casaubon">Jeremiah Casaubon</a>
<File:HildaMacAndrews.jpg>|<a href="Hilda_MacAndrews" class="wikilink"
title="Hilda MacAndrews">Hilda MacAndrews</a> <File:Ysabella>
BL2.png|<a href="Ysabella_Moore" class="wikilink"
title="Ysabella Moore">Ysabella Moore</a>

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] [Vampire: The Masquerade Clans
section](https://www.worldofdarkness.com/vampire-the-masquerade-clans),
World of Darkness Website

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 87-88

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 90-91

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 91

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 59

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 210

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 403

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 184

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 262

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, pages 205-207

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, page 233

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Let_the_Streets_Run_Red"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red">Vampire: The
Masquerade Let the Streets Run Red</a>, pages 207-209

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 135

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 171

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 133

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, pages 87-88

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 134

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 134-137

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 168

[20] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, pages 133-134

[21] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 38

[22] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 133

[23] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 167

[24] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Anarch" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Anarch">Vampire: The Masquerade
Anarch</a>, page 168
