\_\_TOC\_\_

**Tzimisce** were introduced in the Vampire the Masquerade 5th Edition
Companion Guide. The dragons view ownership above all, they aim to
conquer and rule the subject of their possessiveness. Traditionally
their charges were based on geographical locations, hence the stereotype
of a vampire in a looming castle. However, in the modern age, the
younger generations have taken a more loose approach, staking claim over
mortals rather than their land. Their desire to own is only limited by
their lack of expansion, but once they've sunk their claws in they are
hard to shake loose.

These possessive traits extend beyond others and property and into their
own body. Many dragons specialize in a form of Protean known as
Vicissitude which allows them to alter their bodies how they deem fit,
including the bodies of others willing or not. These Tzimisce go beyond
just the physical perfectionism and lean into the metaphysical and
stretch the very limits of vampirism itself. Transforming their bodies
into statues, or altering the traits of gender, reaching as far as to
create groups of mortal lookalikes to subsume their individuality. Some
tales even speak of Dragons going as far as to become one with their
haven, merging into the soil of their domain.

This, of course, creates a divide between the older and younger Tzimisce
where the younger have had less time to cultivate their ownership while
the other doubles their control. It's no surprise to hear that the
Tzimisce were active participants in the Anarch Revolt and were one of
the founding clans of the Sabbat. Even tonight, with the Sabbat
shattered, others are wary of them and their cunning abilities. With the
elders controlling so much, many younger members are driven from the
Black Hand and towards the Anarchs to redefine themselves and their
charges. A few Tzimisce find comfort within the Camarilla, finding a
familiar comfort in its neo-feudalism even if the tower itself has
little love for them. [1]

## Disciplines

Below are the powers innate to the Tzimisce as well as the uses they
find in it. [2]

- **Animalism** allows them to extend their oneness with their domain,
  as well as extend their command over the lesser beasts in their
  territory.
- **Dominate** enables them to enforce their edicts through mental
  force.
- **Protean** has its purpose beyond changing into animal shape. Growing
  alongside their ability to Dominate they unlock their ability to use
  Vicissitude.

## Bane

<section begin=bane/>

**Grounded** - Each Tzimisce must select a specific charge, be it
physical location, a group of people, or something even more esoteric.
Each night they must sleep surrounded by their charge, if they do not,
they sustain aggravated
[Willpower](./willpower.md)
damage equal to their Bane Severity upon waking the following night.

<section end=bane/>

[3]

## Variant Bane

<section begin="altbane" />

**Cursed Courtesy** - If they wish to enter a place of residence
uninvited they must spend Willpower equal to their Bane Severity, this
penalty also applies to their Discipline pools while they are there. The
invitation inside can only be made by someone who lives there and this
does not occur in uninhabited homes or public places. Tzimisce with this
Bane cannot take the uninvited
[Folkloric Block](./merits_flaws.md#folkloric-block).

<section end="altbane" />

[4]

## Compulsion

<section begin=compulsion/>

**Covetousness** - When afflicted with this compulsion they become
obsessed with owning something in the scene, be it an object, or
property to a living person. Whatever it is, they must add it to their
collection and any action taken not towards this purpose incurs a
two-dice penalty. This penalty continues until ownership is established
or the object of their desire is unobtainable.

<section end=compulsion/>

[5]

## Example archetypes

- **Landlord** - The extension of their charge reaches into the property
  they own as slum apartments with tenants that they bleed dry in more
  than one way.
- **Gang Leader** - Where the older seek to control locations, this
  Tzimisce controls a group, using the underground criminal world to
  maintain hold over their charges within the ranks beneath them.
- **Baby Dragon** - A younger Tzimisce still learning the ways to
  survive the nights, but their sire controls their moves, watching over
  them and claiming them as their own territory.
- **Plastic Surgeon** - Their skills as a mortal reconstructing faces
  has caught the attention of an older Tzimisce, embracing them to show
  them the future of facial reconstruction at a cost.
- 

## Notable characters

**The Dracon** - an Elder of the clan and one of the legendary
triumvirates coterie known as the Trinity. The three vampries lead the
antiquated city of Constantinople being both coterie-mates and lovers.
In the end, he was only one to survive the fall of great vampire city.
He was the spiritual guide the Trinity, his work remains well known by
those who still believe in the Dream of Constantinople, many hope he one
day returns to Kindred society.[6]

**Mayumi Shibasaki** - A Camarilla-aligned corporate power house and one
of the most influential Kindred in Tokyo. While not technically in
charge, she does use her clout to keep order in the domain.[7][8]

## Culture

### Embrace

To many sires the Embrace is an act of ownership, seeing their childe in
a traditional sire-childe relationship of old, some even go as far as
consider their childers property. Some will jealously guard their childe
so much they would rather see them destroyed then fall into the hands of
others. The Dragon’s candidate for embrace can be as varied as their
supernatural charges.[9]

### In Human Society

The Tzimisce are characterized with charges, something that the Dragon
is driven to claim ownership over and even jealousy hoard. In elder
Tzimisce, this usually fell into geographic regions or geographic
people. The image of a castle in disrepair looming over their claimed
land is the usual image many think of when it comes to old Dragons. For
the younger Tzimisce they can have more conceptual claims for their
charges: cults, companies, gangs, even military units.

These charges are rarely willing, save for some lucky cases. The norm is
usually that charges live in fear and squalor while the Tzimisce prizes
ownership. The Voivodes don’t care if those they claim under them are
happy or flourishing, they only care about possessing them. Some Voivode
take this to the next level and use their master over their form to
merge their consciousness with the land showing supreme ownership of it.
Physically and mentally fusing with the land so they can surround
themselves around the folk they claims. [10]

While the lord of the mountain has mostly vanished, the clan still find
itself positions it can exploit so they may rule their charges. Some
take to being landlords in the Old World operating as ancestral manorial
lords. More modern and New World go for owning high-rises or tenements.
Some as gang leaders pushing and twisting their charges toward a common
goal and watching each others back.

The most infamous servants of the Tzimisce are the servitor ghouls,
szlachta and vozhd. The former an inhuman ghouls with extreme loyalty.
The Vozhd are relics of the past, stitching of dozens of szlachta with
[Fleshcrafting](./protean.md#fleshcrafting) and
[Blood Sorcery](./blood_sorcery.md) to create living war machines absent of thought but
infinitely ravenous. Once used to fight their enemies, protect havens,
or serve at their masters' pleasure. The extreme end of these servitor
ghouls is now rare, save for elders who hoard the secrets. The young at
times discover ways to make special szlachta for their purposes. Even
stranger there are even rumors of
[families of ghouls](./revenant.md#revenant-ghouls) in service of elders
their ghoul status passed on biologically, such ways this was achieved
is known only to the oldest members of the clan.[11]

### In Kindred Society

Masters of their surroundings, charges, and even their own bodies, the
Tzimisce are marked with their knack for Vicissitude. This allows them
to circumvent the Curse of Caine allowing them to change their form to
their liking. Legends say this stems from the clan rejecting the
limitation of Protean animal forms in the old days, pushing themselves
to develop their unique art. Some go farther than physical form,
focusing on the mind and spirits for ways to transcend ideas of
individuality, gender, and any other mortal trapping.

The domains of Tzimisce can be shocking to other clans, as they have
little care for the happiness of their possession, many domains look to
be in disrepair, neglected, or barren. Their possessive nature extends
even to coteries, where they may see a coterie as theirs. The coterie
can be seen as colleagues, fellows, rivals, attendants, or even vassals
under the Dragon’s care. To many Tzimisce coteries are a source of
status. Those in coteries with Tzimisce are indeed under the Dragon’s
protection and are even witness to their hospitality, which may actually
be an extension of their ownership.

A major trait about the Tzimisce is their notorious vice of grudge
bearing, said to even exceed that of Toreador Vendettas. The clan has a
longstanding rivalry with the
[Tremere](./tremere.md),
[Nosferatu](./nosferatu.md),
and [Gangrel](./gangrel.md). Some
they see as usurpers of the blood, the others they see as interlopers on
their lands from age old conflicts. One of the oldest enemies the clans
consider are the elders, which ironically differs depending on the
Dragon's age and sect alignment. [12][13]

#### Kolduny

Some Tzimisce may start with
[Blood Sorcery](./blood_sorcery.md) and practice it. This type of blood sorcery is called a
koldunic sorcery practiced by a koldun. Many kolduny consider themselves
the oldest and best blood sorcerers long before the other clans. They
practice a form of blood sorcery that thralls an element so they may
perceive through it and build more
[Blood Sorcery Rituals](./blood_sorcery_rituals.md) allowing them
control their chosen elements. Each level they choose an element from
air, water, fire, or earth to supposedly form a blood bond with so they
may command it. Their preferred rituals are those that exert control on
people or property.[14][15] 

Learning usually depends on a mentoring koldun, usually the sire. They
usually go to a wild place under the new moon for a new initiate to bind
the element of choice to them. The process can take weeks. In the past
they needed to go to the Carpathian Mountains so they may find a
[furcus](./blood_craft_scene.md#furcus) with the right connection, but now many can go
to a wild place already prepared by an older Tzimisce. The process is
repeated for each element. Some push the limits of their craft like the
[Lui Domien](./other_groups.md#lui-domien) and others use the
[blood craft scene](./blood_craft_scene.md) to profit or find
avenues for their experiments.[16][17]

### Faction Differences

The division between the sects go along generational lines much more
than other clans. These nights the clan is divided between the
[Sabbat](./sabbat.md) and
[Anarch Movement](./anarch.md) equally, and some few go towards the
[Camarilla](./camarilla.md).

The Tzimisce in the
[Sabbat](./sabbat.md) are called
*Tzimisce antitribu*. This is where many of the older members of the
clan still reside in the night. The Dragon’s hatred for elders is
notorious, so much so they participated in the first Anarch Revolt and
helped found the Sabbat. Still in a medieval mindset fixated on
destroying the followers of their despised ancients. They are
stereotyped to possessing some of the more traditional trappings of the
clan.

Anarch Tzimisce does not take a new title, but acknowledge their clan.
They grow tired of their hypocritical sires and elders who take up all
the good resources and domains of the night. They are equally tired of
their sires treating them as mere property. The young Tzimisce strive to
redefine themselves by what they rule over. They set out to found their
own holdings and be their own masters in the night.

Some Tzimisce overfond of tradition find the neofeudalism of the
Camarilla attractive. A rare group they are at odds with the distrust
the Tower has for their greed and the Tzimisce question if their
personal investment will yield returns.[18]

## Exclusive Loresheets

Tzimisce characters have special access to the following loresheets:

- [High Clan](./loresheets.md#high-clan)
- [Descendant of Dracula](./loresheets.md#descendant-of-dracula)

## Gallery

## References

<references />

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Clans" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Clans">Category:Clans</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 17-18

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 18

[3]

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 59

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 19

[6] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Corebook" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Corebook">Vampire: The Masquerade
Corebook</a>, page 393

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 48

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Camarilla" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Camarilla">Vampire: The Masquerade
Camarilla</a>, page 88

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, page 17

[10]

[11] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 19-23

[12]

[13] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Companion" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Companion">Vampire: The Masquerade
Companion</a>, pages 39-40

[14] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Sigils" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Blood Sigils">Vampire: the Masquerade
Blood Sigils</a>, page 9

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Sigils" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Blood Sigils">Vampire: the Masquerade
Blood Sigils</a>, page 95

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Sigils" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Blood Sigils">Vampire: the Masquerade
Blood Sigils</a>, page 61

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Blood_Sigils" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: the Masquerade Blood Sigils">Vampire: the Masquerade
Blood Sigils</a>, page 113-114

[18]
