## Overviews

The Underworld is the land of the dead. The Underworld is called many
things by necromancers and mystics: Oblivion, the Labyrinth, Abyss, or
the Shadowlands. But some of the names have specific definitions
corresponding to different portions to the lands of the dead. The place
is fraught with dangers as Wraiths can physically attack and drain
Willpower in these lands, it is hard to feed, and those that
<a href="torpor" class="wikilink" title="torpor">torpor</a> or lose all
their
<a href="Willpower" class="wikilink" title="Willpower">Willpower</a> are
devoured by the Abyss. Those in the
<a href="Hecata" class="wikilink" title="Hecata">Hecata</a> elders in
the Anziani Council at the Mausoleum of Venice eagerly pursue study of
the lands of the dead.
<a href="Lasombra" class="wikilink" title="Lasombra">Lasombra</a>
Abyssal mystics also eagerly study this realm. Both clans are said to
have some faucet of the Underworld fuel their
<a href="Oblivion" class="wikilink" title="Oblivion">Oblivion</a>
Discipline.[1][2][3][4][5]

## Layers

### Skinlands

The land of the living, called the Skinlands. This is where
<a href="kine" class="wikilink" title="kine">kine</a> and
<a href="Kindred" class="wikilink" title="Kindred">Kindred</a> live.[6]

### The Shroud

The Shroud, veil, or sudario is the barrier between the Skinlands and
the Shadowlands. If a Wraith lacks a power to allow it to cross, then it
needs a <a href="Oblivion_Ceremonies" class="wikilink"
title="Ceremony">Ceremony</a> or a tear in the Shroud to do so. When a
tear is severe, human health suffers and Wraiths may be able to cross.
The more torn the shroud the more easy it is to do Oblivion
Ceremonies.[7][8][9][10]

### The Shadowlands

The Shadowlands are layered reality over and under the Skinlands, these
layers of the Shadowlands reflect a distorted representation of reality.
Locations of spiritual or passion importance are rendered more grand or
imposing. The same is said for locations that living or dead hold little
regard for. A church where many lovers wed is filled with joy and
happiness., but a location known for death is represented covered in
blood and body parts. The sky lacks the moon, sun, and stars. This level
is the deepest levels of Underworld vampires can travel to via the most
popular Ceremonies. Many may still call this part the Underworld.

Many ghosts come to the Shadowlands to spy on loved ones or those they
have vendettas against. Some wait here in hopes of being summoned.
Necromancer come to this level to spy on others, talk to past friends
and foe, forge alliances with the dead, and hide important
objects.[11][12]

### The True Underworld

The true Underworld is where the Wraiths make their home. Their cities
are called necropoli far removed from their view of Kindred and kine.
Geographies have different scales in the Underworld. Kindred cannot
enter into this part without the most advanced Ceremonies and a wraith
to sponsor the journey. Powerful necromancers such as Augustus Giovanni
have been able to venture to this part of the lands of the dead. It is
said to be a place few ever return from.[13][14]

Lady Fate rules this land with her Stygian servants.[15][16]

### Tempest

This place lies deeper Tempest is a part of the Underworld plagued by
perpetual  storms and howling winds. Said to have creatures seemingly
made of glass and memories.[17][18][19]

### The Abyss

The Abyss is the darkest place beneath and around the Underworld is
called many names: Oblivion, the Void, or the Labyrinth. It is believed
this is where the
<a href="Lasombra" class="wikilink" title="Lasombra">Lasombra</a> gain
the power for their mastery over shadows. Many assume to enter Oblivion
is to be erased from existence.[20][21]

Ruchira Fonseka, a Nagaraja, described where the light of both worlds
ends. It is  like an accretion disk of infinite darkness that holds
beings there, all contained in a maze that twists and confounds. This
maze is made to keep unknown beings in and others out.[22]

It is said that some formless consciousness, Shalim, speaks from the
Abyss to the Abyssal mystics of Clan Lasombra or any Kindred who stare
too deep in the Abyss. The nature of Shalim is contested rumors say it
is the creator of all things, the Lasombra antediluvian, a Lasombra
methuselah, or many other theories. The entity has garnered followers in
the form of
<a href="Cult_of_Shalim" class="wikilink" title="Cult of Shalim">Cult of
Shalim</a>.[23][24]

## References

<a href="Category:Index" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Index">Category:Index</a>
<a href="Category:Locations" class="wikilink"
title="Category:Locations">Category:Locations</a>

[1] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 146

[2] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 207

[3] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 203-204

[4] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Chicago_by_Night" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Chicago by Night">Vampire: The Masquerade
Chicago by Night</a>, page 292-293

[5] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 86

[6]

[7] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 126

[8] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 205

[9] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 209

[10] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Players_Guide" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Players Guide">Vampire: The Masquerade
Players Guide</a>, page 87-88

[11]

[12] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 215

[13]

[14]

[15] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 204

[16] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 213

[17] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 130-131

[18] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Cults_of_the_Blood_Gods"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods">Vampire: The
Masquerade Cults of the Blood Gods</a>, page 238

[19] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Trails_of_Ash_and_Bone"
class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Trails of Ash and Bone">Vampire: The
Masquerade Trails of Ash and Bone</a>, page 139

[20]

[21]

[22]

[23]

[24] <a href="Vampire:_The_Masquerade_Gehenna_War" class="wikilink"
title="Vampire: The Masquerade Gehenna War">Vampire: The Masquerade
Gehenna War</a>, page 30
